
{317} NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 232.]
SATURDAY, APRIL 8. 1854.
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                    Page

  Arabian Tales and their Sources, by J. W. Thomas             319
  La Rochefoucauld, by J. Macray                               320
  Shropshire Ballad                                            320
  "Of the Benefit of the Death of Christ," by Aonio Paleario,
  by the Rev. J. Ayre                                          321

  MINOR NOTES:--Stone Chisels--Acrostic--Simmels--Ogborne's
  History of Essex--Fleas and Bugs--Zeuxis and Parrhasius--
  Cure for Hydrophobia--The "Fusion"                           321

  QUERIES:--
  Lyra's Commentary, by Edw. Peacock                           323

  MINOR QUERIES:--Barristers' Gowns--"Charta Hen. 2. G. G.
  n. 2. q."--Albany Wallace--Leslie and Dr. Middleton--Star
  and Garter, Kirkstall--Shrove Tuesday--"Tarbox for that"--
  De Gurney Pedigree--"[Greek: Pistis]," unde deriv.--Snush--
  John Bale, Bishop of Ossory--Proxies for absent Sponsors--
  Heraldic Query--Christmas Ballad--Hay-bread Recipe--Te
  Deum--Mary Queen of Scots at Auchincas--Right of Refuge in
  the Church Porch--Christopher Lemying of Burneston--Ralph
  Ashton the Commander                                         323

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Roman Roads in England--
  Inscription on the Brass of Sir G. Felbridge--Skipwith--
  College Battel--Origin of Clubs--Royal Arms in Churches--
  Odd Fellows--Governor-General of India--Precedence           325

  REPLIES:--
  Marmortinto, or Sand-painting, by John Mummery               327
  O'Brien of Thosmond                                          328
  Coronation Stone                                             328
  Polygamy, by T. J. Buckton and the Rev. A. Gatty             329
  Poetical Tavern Signs                                        330
  "Behemoth," by C. H. Cooper                                  332

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Photographic Slides for the
  Magic Lantern--Albumenized Paper--Mounting Positives on
  Cardboard--Mr. Lyte's Collodion                              332

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy"
  --Original Royal Letters to the Grand Masters of Malta--
  Prince Charles' Attendants in Spain--Churchill's Grave--
  "Cissle"--Contributors to Knight's "Quarterly Magazine"--
  "La Langue Pandras"--Cranmer Bibles--Voisonier--Word-minting
  --Fair Rosamond--Death-warnings in ancient Families--Poets
  Laureate--Brissot de Warville--"Branks"--Theobald le Botiller
  --Lord Harington--Amontillado--"Mairdill"--Separation of the
  Sexes in Church--Costume of the Clergy not Enarean, &c.      333

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c.                                          338
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                 339
  Notices to Correspondents                                    339

       *       *       *       *       *


ARCHÆOLOGY OF THE STREETS OF DUBLIN, and CELTIC RECORDS OF IRELAND, ETC.

For the Series of Papers illustrating the above, see Vols. I. II. and III.
of the "Irish Quarterly Review." Price, bound, 11s. each.

London: SIMPKIN & CO.

Dublin: W. B. KELLY.

       *       *       *       *       *


This day is Published,

HISTORY OF THE FRENCH PROTESTANT REFUGEES, FROM THE REVOCATION OF THE EDICT
OF NANTES. By CHARLES WEISS, Professor of History in the Lycée Buonaparte.
Translated, with the assistance of the Author, by FREDERICK HARDMAN. In
demy octavo, price 14s. cloth.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS,
Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE BLACK SEA.

The Fourth Edition of

MR. OLIPHANT'S RUSSIAN SHORES OF THE BLACK SEA, is now Published.

In 8vo., with 34 Engravings on Wood, an Enlarged Map of the Crimea, and Map
of the Author's Route, price 14s.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS,
Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *


RUSSIA AND TURKEY.

A FRENCH MAP OF RUSSIA IN EUROPE, AND TURKEY, comprising the Baltic and
Black Seas, with the adjacent Countries, IS NOW PUBLISHED. Price 5s. in
sheet, case 8s., per post 6d. additional.

    London: EDWARD STANFORD, 6. Charing Cross, who will forward on
    application a List of Maps of the Seat of War.

       *       *       *       *       *


BALTIC AND BLACK SEAS.

THE ADMIRALTY CHARTS of these Seas are NOW PUBLISHED. Price, plain, 2s. 6d.
each; in case, 5s. Coloured, 3s. 6d.; case, 6s., per post 6d. additional.

    London: EDWARD STANFORD, 6. Charing Cross, who will forward on
    application (Gratis) a List of Admiralty Charts of the Coasts and
    Harbours of these Seas.

       *       *       *       *       *


DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES.

A MAP OF THIS DISTRICT, on the scale of 9 miles to the inch, prepared from
the celebrated Vienna Map in 21 sheets, IS NOW PUBLISHED. Price, in 6
sheets coloured, 12s.; case or rollers, 21s.

London: EDWARD STANFORD, 6. Charing Cross; and all Map and Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *


This Day, fcap. 8vo., 6s.

DAYS AND HOURS, by FREDERICK TENNYSON.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON,
West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


This Day, fcap. 8vo., 3s.

CORREGGIO; a Tragedy. By ADAM OEHLENSCHLAGER. Translated, with Notes, by
THEODORE MARTIN.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON,
West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


This Day, Fourth and Cheaper Edition, fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

COMPANIONS OF MY SOLITUDE.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON,
West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, in square 32mo., antique cloth, red edges, price 6s.

PRECES PRIVATÆ, IN STUDIOSORUM GRATIAM COLLECTÆ, ET REGIA AUTHORITATE
APPROBATÆ: Anno MDLXVIII. Londini Editæ; ad Vetera exemplaria denuo
recognitæ.

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, with ten coloured Engravings, price 5s.,

NOTES ON AQUATIC MICROSCOPIC SUBJECTS OF NATURAL HISTORY, selected from the
"Microscopic Cabinet." By ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I.

Also, in 8vo., pp. 720, plates 24, price 21_s_., or coloured, 36s.,

A HISTORY OF INFUSORIAL ANIMALCULES, Living and Fossil, containing
Descriptions of every species, British and Foreign, the methods of
procuring and viewing them, &c., illustrated by numerous Engravings. By
ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I.

    "There is no work extant in which so much valuable information
    concerning Infusoria (Animalcules) can be found, and every Microscopist
    should add it to his library."--_Silliman's Journal._

London: WHITTAKER & CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *


This Day is published, the Third Edition, revised and augmented, in 8vo.,
with Plates, price 12s. 6d., cloth.

THE MYTHOLOGY OF GREECE AND ITALY. By THOMAS KEIGHTLEY.

    "It will always deservedly maintain its high position, as the exponent
    of what Greeks thought and wrote about and believed."--_Pococke, India
    in Greece._

WHITTAKER & CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *


{318}

THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, No. CCII., will be published on TUESDAY next.

                 Contents:
     I. MORMONISM.
    II. JOHN LOCKE--HIS CHARACTER AND PHILOSOPHY.
   III. HISTORY OF FRENCH PROTESTANT REFUGEES.
    IV. MOORE'S JOURNAL.
     V. THE NATIONAL GALLERY REPORT.
    VI. RECENT ITALIAN AUTOBIOGRAPHIES.
   VII. OPINIONS OF THE JUDGES ON CODIFICATION.
  VIII. CONSUMPTION OF FOOD IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.

London: LONGMAN & CO.

Edinburgh: A. & C. BLACK.

       *       *       *       *       *


Now ready, No. VI., 2s. 6d., published Quarterly.

RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW (New Series): consisting of Criticisms upon, Analyses
of, and Extracts from, Curious, Useful, Valuable, and Scarce Old Books.

Vol. I., 8vo., pp. 436, cloth 10s. 6d.., is also ready.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE FOR APRIL contains, among other articles:--The
History of the Protestant Refugees in France. The Positive Philosophy of
Auguste Comte. Traits of the Czars. Pilgrimage to High Places: Einsiedlen
in Switzerland. Moore and the Right Hon. John Wilson Croker. The Table of
Precedency. The Moscow Septuagint. Anecdotes of Norden the Topographer.
Ancient Wedding Ceremonies. The Lord Mayor's Pageant of 1684. Emendation of
a Passage in Coriolanus. With Notes of the Month, Reviews of New
Publications, Reports of Archæological Societies, &c. The Obituary
contains, Memoirs of the Marquess of Londonderry, the Bishop of Salisbury,
Sir Ralph Lopes, Bart.; Sir John Conroy, Bart., Capt. Sir Everard Home,
Bart.; Sir Henry Miers Elliot, K.C.B.; Colonel Joliffe; Rev. W. L.
Richards, D.D.; Rev. R. Jenkyns, D.D., Dean of Wells; Rev. W. P. Greswell;
Rev. W. H. Dixon, F.S.A.; John Martin the Painter; Robert Alexander, Esq.;
Thomas Saunders, Esq., F.S.A.; John Fardell, Esq., F.S.A.; Henry Belcher,
Esq., &c.

NICHOLS & SONS, 25. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Price One Shilling,

THE NATIONAL MISCELLANY FOR APRIL contains:

  1. The New Civil Service Scheme.
  2. The Flaw in the Column.
  3. The Labour Parliament.
  4. An Avalanche on the Great St. Bernard.
  5. Mediæval London.
  6. Saturday Night.
  7. The Weekly Periodicals.
  8. Sea Life and Sea Literature.
  9. Notices.
  10. Poetry.

At the OFFICE, No. 1, Exeter Street, Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Post Free.

THE CATTLE UPON A THOUSAND HILLS. A List of GREAT OLD ENGLISH BOOKS for
Sale, by

JOHN TUPLING, 320. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHEAP BOOKS.--C. HILL'S CATALOGUE, No. 13., just published, including a
long Article on NAPOLEON. Sent free on Application.

14. KING STREET, HOLBORN.

       *       *       *       *       *


COMPLETION OF A VOLUME.

Now ready, VOLUME I., price 1s. 6d.,

LARDNER'S MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART.--Illustrated by Engravings on Wood.

PART I., price 5d.

  1. The Planets; Are they Inhabited Globes? Chap. I.
  2. Weather Prognostics.
  3. The Planets. Are they Inhabited Globes? Chap. II.
  4. Popular Fallacies in Questions of Physical Science.

PART II., price 5d.

  5. Latitudes and Longitudes.
  6. The Planets. Are they Inhabited Globes? Chap. III.
  7. Lunar Influences.
  8. Meteoric Stones and Shooting Stars. Chap I.

PART III., price 6d.

  9. Railway Accidents. Chap. I.
  10. The Planets. Are they Inhabited Globes? Chap. IV. and last.
  11. Meteoric Stones and Shooting Stars. Chap. II.
  12. Railway Accidents. Chap. II.
  13. Light.

    "This serial, which will form quarterly eighteenpenny volumes, is, we
    are disposed to think, the best literary investment of a penny a week
    now extant."--_Examiner._

    "This series, besides affording popular but sound instruction on
    scientific subjects, with which the humblest man in the country ought
    to be acquainted, also undertakes that teaching of 'common things'
    which Lord Ashburton and every well-wisher of his kind are anxious to
    promote."--_Times._

London: WALTON & MABERLY, Upper Gower Street, and Ivy Lane, Paternoster
Row.

       *       *       *       *       *


SMEE'S BINOCULAR PERSPECTIVE PHOTOGRAPHS.--A full account of the mode of
taking these extraordinary Likenesses in "Smee on the Eye," just published,
price 5s.

HORNE, THORNTHWAITE & WOOD,
123. Newgate Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


CLASSICAL MUSICAL LIBRARY.--Subscribers are liberally supplied, on loan,
with every description of New Vocal and Instrumental Music, and have also
at their disposal upwards of 3,000 volumes, including the Standard Operas,
Italian, German, French, and English Songs, and all kinds of Instrumental
Music. During the Term of Subscription, each Subscriber has the privilege
of selecting--for his own property--from 100,000 different pieces, 3
Guineas' worth of Music. Prospectuses forwarded Free on application.

JULLIEN & CO., 214. Regent Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALLEN'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, containing Size, Price, and Description of
upwards of 100 articles, consisting of PORTMANTEAUS, TRAVELLING-BAGS,
Ladies' Portmanteaus, DESPATCH-BOXES, WRITING-DESKS, DRESSING-CASES, and
other travelling requisites, Gratis on application, or sent free by Post on
receipt of Two Stamps.

MESSRS. ALLEN'S registered Despatch-box and Writing-desk, their
Travelling-bag with the opening as large as the bag, and the new
Portmanteau containing four compartments, are undoubtedly the best articles
of the kind ever produced.

J. W. & T. ALLEN, 18 & 22. West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


This Day is published, price 8s. cloth or gilt, 8s. 6d., embellished with
numerous Engravings,

WANDERINGS OF AN ANTIQUARY: chiefly upon the Traces of the ROMANS IN
BRITAIN. By THOMAS WRIGHT, ESQ., M.A., F.S.A.

CONTENTS:--1. Iron Works of the Forest of Dean. 2. Roman Cities on the
Welsh Borders. 3. Verulamium. 4. Anglo-Saxon Graves in Kent. 5. Sandwich,
and Rutupiæ. 6. The Kentish Coast. 7. Pevensey. 8. Potteries on the Medway.
9. Valley of Maidstone. 10. Hill Entrenchments on the Welsh Borders. 11.
From York to Goodmanham. 12. Isuriam or Aldborough. 13. Bramber Castle and
Sussex Churches. 14. Bignor. 15. Stonehenge. 16. Old Sarum.

    "Got up with very good taste in style and matter. We recommend this
    excellent little book."--_Dover Chronicle._

    "Avoiding wild and speculative theories on the one hand, and aiming to
    further the purposes of pure history on the other."--_Morning Post._

    "Mr. Wright conveys sound antiquaries information at every step in a
    pleasing and popular manner, which must render the volume a grateful
    companion to all who have not made our national ancient monuments a
    professed study: and even the experienced archæologist will often find
    unsuspected new views of old opinions which it may be at least
    wholesome to revise or reconsider."--_Gentlman's Magazine._

NICHOLS & SONS, 25. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Second Edition, price 5s. 6d. cloth,

THE ANTIQUITIES OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH. Translated and compiled from the
Works of Augusti; with numerous Additions from Rheinwald, Siegel, and
others. By the REV. LYMAN COLEMAN.

Second Edition, price 6s. 6d. cloth,

A HISTORY OF THE HEBREW COMMONWEALTH. Translated from the German of JOHN
JAHN, D.D. With an Appendix, containing the History of the Jews to the
Reign of Adrian, translated from Basnage. By C. E. STOWE, A.M.

Fourth Edition, price 6s. cloth,

BIBLICAL ANTIQUITIES. By JOHN JAHN, D.D. Translated from the Latin, with
Additions and Corrections. By T. C. UPHAM, Bowdoin College, United States.
With Map and Three Engravings.

Fourth Edition (500 pages), price 12s. cloth,

LECTURES ON CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY. By GEORGE CHRISTIAN KNAPP, D.D., Professor
of Theology in the University of Halle. Translated by LEONARD WOODS, JUN.,
D.D., Andover, U.S.

WARD & CO., 27. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *


In 8vo., cloth lettered, price 4s. 6d., or Free by Post, 5s.

GOMER; or, a Brief Analysis of the Language and Knowledge of the Ancient
Cymry. By JOHN WILLIAMS, A.M., Oxon, Archdeacon of Cardigan.

London: HUGHES & BUTLER.
15. St. Martin's-le-Grand.

       *       *       *       *       *


AS SECRETARY OR AMANUENSIS.

A GENTLEMAN who is fully conversant with the French, German, and Italian
Languages is desirous of obtaining some PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT. He can give
satisfactory references as to Competency and Respectability of Family and
Connexions.

Address. F. G. H., care of MR. NEWMAN, Publisher, 9. Devonshire Street,
Bishopsgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


{319}

_LONDON, SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1854._

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

ARABIAN TALES AND THEIR SOURCES.

The Arabians have been the immediate instruments in transmitting to us
those Oriental tales, of which the conception is so brilliant, and the
character so rich and varied, and which, after having been the delight of
our childhood, never lose entirely the spell of their enchantment over our
maturer age. But while many of these tales are doubtless of Arabian origin,
it is not to be supposed that all are equally so. If we may believe the
French translator of the _Thousand and One Tales_, that publication does
not include the thirty-sixth part of the great Arabian collection, which is
not confined to books, but has been the traditional inheritance of a
numerous class, who, like the minstrels of the West, gained their
livelihood by reciting, what would interest the feelings of their hearers.
This class of Eastern story-tellers was common throughout the whole extent
of Mahomedan dominion in Turkey, Persia, and even to the extremity of
India.

The sudden rise of the Saracen empire, and its rapid transition from
barbarism to refinement, and from the deepest ignorance to the most
extensive cultivation of literature and science, is an extraordinary
phenomenon in the history of mankind. A century scarcely elapsed from the
age of Amrou, the general of Caliph Omar, who is said to have burned the
great Alexandrian library, to the period when the family of the Abbasides,
who mounted the throne of the Caliphs A.D. 750, introduced a passionate
love of art, science, and even poetry. The celebrated Haroun Al Raschid
never took a journey without at least a hundred men of science in his
train. But the most munificent patron of Arabic literature was Al Mamoun,
the seventh Caliph of the race of the Abbasides, and son of Haroun Al
Raschid. Having succeeded to the throne A.D. 813, he rendered Bagdad the
centre of literature: collecting from the subject provinces of Syria,
Armenia, and Egypt the most important books which could be discovered, as
the most precious tribute that could be rendered, and causing them to be
translated into Arabic for general use. When Al Mamoun dictated the terms
of peace to Michael, the Greek emperor, the tribute which he demanded from
him was a collection of Greek authors.

The Arabian tales had their birth after this period; and when the Arabians
had yielded to the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, the empire of the sword.
Soldiers are seldom introduced; the splendours of the just Caliph's reign
are dwelt upon with fond remembrance; the style is that of a mercantile
people, while riches and artificial luxuries are only rivalled by the
marvellous gifts of the genii and fairies. This brilliant mythology, the
offspring of the Arabian imagination, together with the other
characteristics of the Arabian tales, has had an extensive influence on our
own literature. Many of these tales had found their way into our poetry
long before the translation of the _Arabian Nights_; and are met with in
the old _Fabliaux_, and in Boccacio, Ariosto, and Chaucer. But while these
tales are Arabian in their structure, the materials have been derived, not
only from India, Persia, and China, but also from ancient Egypt, and the
classical literature of Greece.

I shall content myself at present with adducing one example of such
probable derivation from the source last mentioned. The stories to be
compared are too long for quotation, which, as they are well known, will
not be necessary. I shall therefore merely give, in parallel columns, the
numerous points of resemblance, or coincidence, between the two. The
Arabian tale is that of "Ali Baba and the Forty Robbers;" the corresponding
story will be found in Herodotus, b. II. c. cxxi.; it is that of
Rhampsinitus and the robbery of his royal treasury:

    THE EGYPTIAN TALE.

    1. The king constructs a stone edifice for the security of his vast
    riches.

    2. In the wall of this treasury is a stone so artfully disposed that a
    single person can move it, so as to enter and retreat without leaving
    any trace of his having done so.

    3. Two brothers become acquainted with the secret opening into the
    treasury, and enter it for the purpose of enriching themselves.

    4. One of the brothers becomes rich by abstracting large sums of money
    from the royal treasury.

    5. The other brother is caught in the snare which the king had laid
    within the treasury, for the detection and apprehension of the
    intruders.

    6. At his own request the brother thus caught is beheaded by the other
    to avoid recognition, and to secure the escape of one. The dead body is
    hung from the wall of the treasury, for the purpose of discovering his
    accomplice.

    7. The surviving brother, at his mother's earnest request, carries off
    the dead body, and brings it home on the back of one of his asses.

    8. The king, unable to ascertain how his treasury had been entered, is
    enraged at the removal of the body, and alarmed at finding that some
    one who possesses the secret still survives.

    9. The king has recourse to stratagem, for the purpose of detecting the
    depredator, but without success.

    10. The surviving brother baffles the king's first attempt to detect
    him, by means of some asses, which, in the character of a wine-seller,
    he had loaded with wine-flasks, making the king's guards drunk, and
    leaving them all fast asleep.

    THE ARABIAN TALE.

    1. In a rock so steep and craggy that none can scale it, a cave has
    been hewn out, in which the robbers deposit their prodigious wealth.

    2. In this rock is a door which opens into the cave, by means of two
    magical words, "Open Sesame;" and closes again in like manner by
    pronouncing the words "Shut Sesame."

    3. Two brothers become acquainted with the door of the cave, and the
    means of opening and shutting it; and they enter it for the purpose of
    enriching themselves.

    4. Ali Baba, one of the two brothers, becomes rich by carrying off a
    great quantity of gold coin from the robbers' cave.

    5. Cassim, the other brother, is caught as in a snare, by forgetting,
    when in the cave, the magical words by which alone ran exit could be
    obtained.

    6. Cassim, in his attempt to escape, is killed by the robbers, and his
    dead body is quartered, and hung up within the door of the cave, to
    deter any who might be his accomplices.

    7. Ali Baba, at the instance of Cassim's widow, carries off his remains
    from the cave, and brings them home on the back of one of his asses.

    8. The robbers, unable to guess how their cave had been entered, are
    alarmed at the removal of Cassim's remains, which proves to them that
    some one who possesses the secret still survives.

    9. The robbers have recourse to stratagem, for the purpose of
    discovering the depredator, but without success.

    10. Ali Baba, assisted by his female slave, baffles the robber
    captain's first attempt upon him, by means of some oil in a jar, his
    men being concealed in the other jars, with which the captain, in the
    character of an oil-merchant, had loaded some asses: thus the latter,
    who thought his men asleep, finds them all dead.

    {320}

    THE EGYPTIAN TALE.

    11. In the darkness of the night, the surviving brother tells the
    king's daughter, whom her father had employed to detect him, the story
    of his exploits in baffling the guards and carrying off the body of his
    brother.

    12. The king's daughter attempts to seize the brother, but he baffles
    her, by leaving in her hand a dead arm instead of his own.

    13. The king, who admires the audacity and ingenuity of the surviving
    brother, offers him, by proclamation, pardon and reward; and, on his
    coming forward, gives him his daughter in marriage.

    THE ARABIAN TALE.

    11. In the dusk of the evening, Baba Mustapha relates to the two
    robbers in succession, who had been employed to detect Ali Baba, the
    story of his having sewed a dead body together; and, blindfold, himself
    conducts each of them to Ali Baba's door.

    12. The two robbers successively mark the house of Ali Baba with chalk;
    but his female slave baffles them by putting a similar mark on the
    other houses, in consequence of which they are put to death instead of
    her master.

    13. Ali Baba, saved from the robber captain's designs by the course and
    ingenuity of Morgiana, his female slave, gives her freedom, and marries
    her to his son.

Here, then, are above a dozen striking coincidences in this one example;
and they are given with but slight dislocation or transposition. Other
examples might be adduced, but I must reserve them for another
communication.

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

LA ROCHEFOUCAULD.

Meeting occasionally, in reading new French works and journals, with
sentiments and criticisms by eminent living writers on the characteristic
peculiarities of some of the most distinguished French authors of the age
of Louis XIV. and subsequently, perhaps you will allow me to send you, from
time to time, "notes" or extracts from the criticisms alluded to, in case
you should be of opinion that they may be agreeable to some of your
readers, who may not be aware of the healthier and more Christian tone that
now pervades one, at least, of the most influential organs of public
opinion in France. Let us begin with _La Rochefoucauld_, as recently
reviewed in the _Journal des Débats_.

J. MACRAY.

Oxford.

    _"La Rochefoucauld._

    "Pourquoi La Rochefoucauld m'inspire-t-il une répugnance invincible?
    Pourquoi cette souffrance en le lisant? Ah! le voici, je crois. La
    morale de La Rochefoucauld c'est la morale Chrétienne, moins, si je
    puis m'exprimer ainsi, le Christianisme lui-même; c'est tout ce qui
    peut humilier et abattre le coeur dans la sévère doctrine de
    l'Evangile, moins ce qui le relève; c'est toutes les illusions
    détruites sans les espérances qui remplacent les illusions. En un mot,
    dans le Christianisme La Rochefoucauld n'a pris que le dogme de la
    chute; il a laissé le dogme de la rédemption. En faisant briller un
    côté du flambeau, celui qui désenchante l'homme de lui-même, il éclipse
    l'autre, celui qui montre à l'homme dans le ciel sa force, son appui,
    et l'espoir d'une régénération. La Rochefoucauld ne croit pas plus à la
    sainteté qu'à la sagesse, pas plus à Dieu qu'à l'homme. Le pénitent
    n'est pas moins vain à ses yeux que le philosophe. Partout l'orgueil,
    partout le _moi_, sous la haire du Trappiste, comme sous le manteau du
    cynique.

    "La Rochefoucauld n'est Chrétien que pour poursuivre notre pauvre coeur
    jusque dans ses derniers retranchemens; il n'est Chrétien que pour
    verser son poison sur nos joies et sur nos rêves les plus chers.... Que
    reste-t-il donc à l'homme? Pour les âmes fortes, il ne reste rien qu'un
    froid et intrépide mépris de toutes choses, un sec et stoïque
    contentement à envisager le néant absolu; pour les autres, le désespoir
    ou les jouissances brutales du plaisir comme dernière fin de la vie!

    "Et voilà ce que je déteste dans La Rochefoucauld! Cet idéal dont j'ai
    soif, il le détruit partout. Ce bien, ce beau, dont les faibles images
    me ravissent encore sous la forme imparfaite de nos vertus, de notre
    science, de notre sagesse humaine, il le réduit à un sec intérêt."--S.
    De Sacy, _Journal des Débats_, Janv. 28.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHROPSHIRE BALLAD.

Your correspondent B. H. C. (Vol. viii., p. 614.) gives, from recollection,
a Northamptonshire version of the old "Ballad of Sir Hugh of Lincoln." It
reminded me of a similar, though somewhat varied, version which I took
down, more than forty years ago, from the lips of a nurse-maid in
Shropshire. It may interest the author of _The Celt, the Roman, and the
Saxon_, to know that it was recited in the place of his birth. Its
resemblance to the ballad in Percy's _Reliques_ was my inducement to commit
it to paper:

  It hails, it rains, in Merry-Cock land,
  It hails, it rains, both great and small,
  And all the little children in Merry-Cock land,
  They have need to play at ball.
  They toss'd the ball so high,
  They toss'd the ball so low,
  Amongst all the Jews' cattle
  And amongst the Jews below.
  Out came one of the Jews' daughters
  Dressed all in green.
  "Come, my sweet Saluter,
  And fetch the ball again."
  "I durst not come, I must not come,
  Unless all my little playfellows come along,
  For if my mother sees me at the gate,
  She'll cause my blood to fall."
  She show'd me an apple as green as grass,
  She show'd me a gay gold ring,
  She show'd me a cherry as red as blood,
  And so she entic'd me in.
  She took me in the parlour,
  She took me in the kitchen,
  And there I saw my own dear nurse
  A picking of a chicken.
  She laid me down to sleep,
  With a Bible at my head, and a Testament at my feet;
  And if my playfellows come to quere for me,
  Tell them I am asleep.

S. P. Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

{321}

"OF THE BENEFIT OF THE DEATH OF CHRIST," BY AONIO PALEARIO.

The total, or almost total, disappearance of books at one time largely
circulated, is a curious fact in the history of literature. One cause of it
may be found in the efforts made by the Church of Rome to suppress those
works which were supposed to contain unsound doctrine.

    "Heretical books," says Mr. T. B. Macaulay, "were sought out and
    destroyed with unsparing rigour. Works which were once in every house,
    were so effectually suppressed, that no copy of them is now to be found
    in the most extensive libraries. One book in particular, entitled _Of
    the Benefit of the Death of Christ_, had this fate. It was written in
    Tuscan, was many times reprinted, and was eagerly read in every part of
    Italy. But the inquisitors detected in it the Lutheran doctrine of
    justification by faith alone. _They proscribed it; and it is now as
    utterly lost as the second decade of Livy._"

This book was published without a name. But the author was Aonio Paleario.
It was translated into various languages, as French, Spanish, English, and
possibly others; and within six years after its first appearance, 40,000
copies are said to have been circulated.

A few years ago I was fortunate enough to meet with a copy of the English
version, which was made from the French, not from the original. This copy
was printed in 1638, and was, according to the title-page, the fourth
(English) edition. From it I edited the work, prefixing a short notice of
the author, and verifying the references to the Fathers. It was
subsequently retranslated into Italian, and has, I am informed, been much
read in Italy. Some time after this publication, I became aware of the
existence of a copy (in private hands) of the apparently first English
edition, bearing the date of 1573. This I was allowed to inspect: and I
hope hereafter to put forth another edition, in which the text of this copy
will be followed, and two or three inaccuracies which had crept into the
former impression will be corrected.

I was, however, ignorant that a single copy of the original Italian
existed; and all inquiry for it seemed to be vain. But one was near at
hand, preserved with diligent care among the literary treasures of St.
John's College, Cambridge, by the authorities there, who were well aware of
its rarity and value. By their obliging permission, I was a few days ago
permitted to examine it.

It is a small square 16mo., bound, in beautiful condition, measuring about
4¼ inches by 3, and containing seventy-two pages. The following is the
title-page:

    "Trattato vtilissimo del beneficio di Giesv Christo crocifisso, verso i
    Christiani. Venetiis, Apud Bernardinum de Bindonis. Anno Do.
    M.D.XXXXIII."

From the date, it seems to be the first edition.

There is an address

    "Alli Lettori Christiani.

    "Essendoci venuta alle mani un' opera delle piu pie e dotte, che a
    nostri tempi si siano fatte, il titolo della quale e, Del beneficio di
    Giesu Christo crocifisso verso i Christiani: ci e paruto a consolatione
    e utilita vostra darla [=i] istampa, e senza il nome dello scrittore,
    accioche piu la cosa vi muova, che l' autorita dell' autore."

This most curious volume has been for upwards of a century in the library
of St. John's College, as the following printed notice, pasted within the
cover, will show:

    "In grati animi testificationem, ob plurima Humanitatis officia, a
    Collegio Divi Joannis Evangelistæ apud Cantabrigienses multifariam
    collata, librum hunc inter alios lectissimos eidem collegio legavit
    Illustrissimus Vir, Dominicus Antonius Ferrari, J. U. D. Neapolitanus,
    1744.

                     "Teste,
                         "J. CREYK."

But this is not all. The College is happy enough to possess a copy of the
rare French translation of the same book. This is somewhat larger in size
than the original Italian, and consists of sixty-four leaves. It contains,
as will be seen by the title-page, some additional matter:

    "Dv benefice de Iesvs Christ crvcifie, envers les Chrestiens. Traduict
    de vulgaire Italien, en langage Françoys. Plus, Vne Traduction de la
    huytiesme Homelie de sainct Iean Chrysostome, De la femme Cananée: mise
    de Latin en Françoys. Venez a moy vous tous qui trauaillez et estes
    chargez, et ie vous soulageray, 1552."

There is an address by the French translator: "Le traducteur a tous les
Chrestiens qui sont dessoubz le ciel, Salut;" and at the end of the volume
is a "Traduction du Psalme xxxiv." The French version is said to have been
first published in 1545. This therefore is not, it would seem, the earliest
edition.

This volume also, it may be added, was given to the College by Ferrari.

J. AYRE.

Hampstead.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Stone Chisels._--I saw recently an oviform stone implement which had been
found on the granite moors of North Cornwall, and apparently had been used
as a pickaxe in mining. The following notice shows that such implements
were used by the ancient miners in the Lake Superior district:

    "The explorers are now much aided by these guiding features, also by
    pits, which indicate where an ancient race--probably the Aztecs or
    Toltecs--have carried on their superficial operations on the veins.
    Some of those I saw were twenty or thirty feet deep, which {322} must
    have been the result of much labour, considering their tools--_the only
    trace of which we find in the shape of oviformed stones, with a groove
    round the centre for the purpose of securing a handle_, then to be used
    as a hammer to shatter the vein-stone after it probably had been
    reduced by the action of fire and water on the calcareous matter
    entering into its composition. In favour of this conjecture, quantities
    of charcoal have been found in the bottom of some of these pits, which
    are almost effaced by the accumulation of timber decayed and foliage of
    ages past."--From a letter in the _Mining Journal_, Jan. 7, 1854.

S. R. PATTISON.

_Acrostic._--I send you a very curious acrostic, copied from a monument in
the Church of St. Germans, Cornwall. You will perceive that it is in memory
of "Johannes Glanvill, Minister;" and it is surmounted with the arms of
that ancient family:

         A. D.     +-------------------------+   A. D.
         1599.     |                         |   1631.
        24^{to}    |          ARMS.          |   20^{mo}
       Novemb^r    |                         |  Octob^r
       natus est.  +-------------------------+  denatus.

  I nditur in gelidum         G regis hujus opilio bustu    M,
  O mnibus irriguus           L achrymis simul urbis et agr I.
  H ujus erit vivax           A tque indelebile nome        N,
  A rtibus et linguis         N ecnon virtute probat        I.
  N obis ille novæ            V atem (pro munere) legi      S
  N aviter et graviter        I ucunde et suaviter egi      T.
  E rgo relanguenti           L icet eluctetur ab or        E
  S piritus; æternum          L ucebit totus ut aste        R.

W. D. F.

Walton.

_Simmels._--The Vienna correspondent of _The Times_, whose letter from
"Vienna, March 5th," appeared in that paper on Friday the 10th, mentions a
Viennese loaf, the name of which so strongly resembles the _simmel_ of our
ancestors as to deserve a Note:

    "The Viennese witlings, who are much inclined to abuse the hyperbole,
    affirm that a magnifying glass will soon be requisite in order to
    discover the whereabouts of the _semmeln_, the little wheaten loaves
    for which Austria is famous."

W. J. T.

_Ogborne's History of Essex._--I lately fell in with (at a marine
store-shop in Somers Town) some scattered materials in Mrs. Ogborne's
handwriting for the above highly interesting but unfinished work. I have
not yet sorted them, but I perceive that the MSS. contain some information
that was never published, relating to Rochford Hundred, &c. The shopkeeper
stated that she had used the greater part of Mrs. Ogborne's papers as
waste-paper, but I am not without hopes that she will find more. There is a
letter from Mr. Leman of Bath, which is published in the work. I am aware
that Mr. Fossett has Mrs. Ogborne's MSS.; but those now in my possession
are certainly interesting, and might be, to some future historian of Essex,
even valuable. Should I discover anything worth inserting in "N. & Q." on
examining the MSS. I will send it.

G. I. S.

_Fleas and Bugs._--Has the following explanation of an old saying ever been
brought forward, and is it satisfactory? When a person is sent off "with a
flea in his ear," the luckless applicant is peremptorily dismissed with an
imperative "flee," with the word "flee" sounding in his ear, or,
facetiously, "with a _flea_ in his ear."

_Apropos_ of proverbial domestic entomology, is there more than lies on the
surface in the elegant simile "As snug as a bug in a rug?" A rough variety
of dog was termed a "rug" in Shakspeare's time; quartered on which, the
insect might find good entertainment--a plentiful board, as well as a snug
lodging. It appears, however, that the name has not long been applied to
the _Cimex_, so that the saying may be of greater antiquity, and relate to
bugbears.

C. T.

_Zeuxis and Parrhasius._--In the Preface to Mr. Grote's _History of
Greece_, there occurs the following passage:

    "If the reader blame me for not assisting him to determine this--if he
    ask me why I do not undraw the curtain, and disclose the picture?--I
    reply in the words of the painter Zeuxis, when the same question was
    addressed to him on exhibiting his master-piece of imitative art: 'The
    curtain _is_ the picture.'"

Compare this with Pliny, _Nat. Hist._ XXXV. 36. § 3.; from which it appears
that Parrhasius, not _Zeuxis_, painted the curtain.

ARCH. WEIR.

_Cure for Hydrophobia._--A gentleman named Monsell, who lived at Kilrush in
the county Clare, possessed a cure for hydrophobia which was never known to
fail. He required that the patient should be brought to him within nine
days from the time of being bitten, and his first proceeding was to cause
the person to look in a looking-glass or pail of water: if the patient bore
that trial without showing any uneasiness, he declared that there was no
doubt of his being able to effect a cure. He then retired to another room,
leaving the patient alone for a short time; and when he returned, he
brought two bits of cheese which he said contained the remedy, and caused
the person to swallow them. He then desired that the patient should return
home, and for nine days frequently drink a few sips of water; and also take
opportunities to look at water or a looking-glass, so as to accustom the
nerves to be under control. I knew a case of a peasant girl, who was bitten
by a mad dog, and who had to be brought to him tied on a car, whom he
cured. The dog, before he was killed, bit several valuable dogs, all of
{323} which had to be destroyed; he also bit two pigs, which, after showing
most frightful symptoms of hydrophobia, had to be shot and their flesh
burned. Mr. Monsell always refused to declare what his remedy was, "lest it
might be used for anything but a human being." It would appear that in a
great measure he worked on the imagination of his patients: still some
other means may have been used, and, as he has been dead some time, it is
to be hoped he did not let his secret die with him. He never would take any
remuneration from those he cured, or their friends. I never heard any
person in that part of the country express the least doubt of the efficacy
of the remedy he used.

FRANCIS ROBERT DAVIES.

_The "Fusion."_--Is it generally known that there exists, between the two
branches of the Bourbons, a much nearer relationship than that which arises
from their common descent from Louis XIII.? The Duchess de Berri was niece
to Louis-Philippe's queen: so that the Duc de Bordeaux and the Comte de
Paris are second cousins.

E. H. A.

       *       *       *       *       *


Queries.

LYRA'S COMMENTARY.

I possess a copy of the _Textus biblie c[=u] Glossa ordinaria Nicolai de
lyra postilla Pauli Brug[=e]sis Additi[=o]ibus Matthie Thoring Replicis_,
in 6 volumes folio, printed at Basle in the years 1506-8. The binding is of
oak boards and calf leather, stamped with a very spirited design composed
of foliated borders, surrounding, on the right cover, six impressions from
a die three inches high by one and three quarters wide, consisting of a
narrow border enclosing a human figure, who bears in his left hand a
knotted staff as high as himself, while in the right he holds a bag or
scrip containing many balls (perhaps stones or fruit), which hangs over his
shoulder. Under the right arm he carries a sword, and on the wrist a wicker
basket. The lower limbs of this strange being are clad in loose garments,
like to a modern pair of trousers, with a large ragged hole on each knee.
The feet are not seen, as he is behind a fence composed of interlaced
branches of trees. To complete the picture, the head, which is much too
large for the body, has no other covering but crisped hair.

On the left cover are four impressions of a die three inches high by two
wide, on which are six animals whose kinds it is difficult to determine
with certainty; the two upper possibly may be horses, the middle a bird and
a monkey, the lower a lion and a dog. The animals are separated from each
other by a running pattern composed of branches, leaves, and flowers, and
are surrounded by a frame, on which is the following in black-letter:

 "DEUS DET NOBIS SUAM PACEM
  ET POST MORTEM UITAM ETERNAM."

The clasps have engraven on them, in the same character,--

 "LIB D[=N]S ET M[=GE]R JOANNIS VAM MERE."

On the title-page, slightly varied in each volume, is the following
inscription, in a hand not much later than the publication of the book:

    "Liber M. Joachimi Moller ex testamento M. Johan[=i]s vam mer optim et
    maximus deus illius anime misereatur. Amen."

I shall be much obliged to any one who will explain to me the figures on
the cover, which, doubtless, have some legendary or symbolic meaning; and
also give me any notes or references concerning either of the former
possessors of the book, both of whom have, I believe, enriched it with
manuscript notes.

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors, Messingham,

Kirton-in-Lindsey.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Barristers' Gowns._--What is the meaning of the lapel, or piece which
hangs from the back of the barristers' gown? Has it any particular name? In
shape it is very similar to the representations we see in pictures of the
"cloven tongues." It is not improbable that it may be intended figuratively
to bear reference to them.

HENRY T. RILEY.

"_Charta Hen. 2. G. G. n. 2. q._"--In Cowell's _Law Dictionary_ (ed. 1727),
under the word LUSGUL, I find the following reference: "Charta Hen. 2.
G. G. n. 2. q." I should be much obliged to any person who would suggest
for what "G. G. n. 2. q." stands.

K.

_Albany Wallace._--Can any of your correspondents, familiar with the drama,
tell me who this gentleman was? In 1827, there appeared _The Death of Mary
Queen of Scots_, an historic drama in five acts, by A. W., Esq.: Worthing,
printed for the author by W. Verrall. His name occurs again on the
title-page of _The Reigns of the Stuarts in England dramatised. The First
Part of King James the First_, a play in five acts: London, printed by the
author, at his private press, Queen Ann Street, 1835.

I naturally turned up Mr. Martin's _Privately Printed Books_, but neither
our dramatist nor his press is there alluded to. Touching the latter, Mr.
Wallace says in his preface,--

    "A certain picture was said by a connoisseur to be 'very well painted
    for a _gentleman!_' a species of {324} negative praise which gave but
    little satisfaction to the artist. Should the amateur printer, however,
    meet with as much, he will be very well contented. All he can himself
    say for his work is 'that it is legible;' and his type being of a
    pretty tolerable rotundity, he does not think it will need an
    additional pair of spectacles to be made out."

I am farther desirous of knowing if, in pursuance of his plan, Mr. Wallace
_dramatised_ any more of the Stuarts?

J. D.

_Leslie and Dr. Middleton._--In Dr. McNeile's _Lecture on the Jews and
Judaism_, Feb. 14, 1854, the four rules given by Leslie as a test of
historical truth are thus quoted:

    "1. That the matter of fact be such that men's outward senses, their
    ears and eyes, may be judges of it.

    "2. That it be done publicly, in the face of the world.

    "3. That not only public monuments be kept in memory of it, but also
    that some outward actions be statedly performed.

    "4. That such observances be instituted, and do commence, from the time
    at which such matter of fact is done.

    "_It is said_ that Dr. Middleton endeavoured for twenty years to find
    out some pretended fact to which Mr. Leslie's four rules could be
    applied, but in vain."

"It is said." Where; when; by whom?

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

_Star and Garter, Kirkstall._--What is _now_ a large hotel, at Kirkstall
Bridge, near to Kirkstall Abbey in Yorkshire, was many years ago a mere
village roadside hostel, under whose sign (the Star and Garter) was
inscribed in Greek capitals "[Greek: TO PREPON]." How could such an
inscription have got into such a place? Could it have been the suggestion
of some "learned clerke" of the neighbouring monastery, as more suited to
the genius of the vicinity than the ordinary announcement of "Good
Entertainment for Man and Horse?"

J. L. S., Sen.

_Shrove Tuesday._--Happening to be at Newbury on Shrove Tuesday, I was
struck with the tolling of the church bell as for a death, and, on inquiry,
was informed that such was the custom of the place on this day. Does such a
custom exist anywhere else, and what is the origin of it?

NEWBURIENSIS.

"_Tarbox for that._"--On reading a book of funny stories some years ago in
the British Museum (a sort of _Joe Miller_ of Charles II.'s time), whenever
any story was given that seemed "too good to be true," the anecdote ended
with the words "Tarbox for that." Am I right in suspecting that this is
equivalent to the expression, "Tell that to the marines," so well known in
our day? "Tarbox" was probably a nickname for a bumpkin, or guardian of the
tarbox, in which was kept the tar composition used for anointing sheep. Can
anybody suggest another solution of the meaning of this expression?

HENRY T. RILEY.

_De Gurney Pedigree._--Can any of your readers inform me whether the
following pedigree is correct, so far as it goes?

  1170. Robert Fitzhardinge = Eva.
                            |
    -------------------------
    |          |
  Maurice    Robert = Hawisia de Gurney.
                    |
          --------------------------------------
          |                       |            |
  1230. Maurice = Alice de     Henry.[1]    Matthew =
                    Gaunt.                          |
                                                    |
                              -----------------------
                              |
                      1269. Robert de Gurney.[2]


Who was the father of Simon de Gaunt, Bishop of Salisbury in 1300?

E. W. GODWIN.

[Footnote 1: First Master of the Hospital of St. Mark in Bristol.]

[Footnote 2: Heir to Maurice, his uncle.]

"[Greek: Pistis]," _unde deriv._--Scapula and Hederic both give [Greek:
peithô] as the root; but by what process is [Greek: pistis] so obtained?
What objection is there to taking [Greek: histêmi] as the root? whence
[Greek: ephistamai, epistas, pistos]. No doubt one of your learned readers
will kindly aid the inquiry.

[Psi].

_Snush._--When did this name cease to be used for _snuff?_ I think I have
met with it as late as the reign of Queen Anne. I believe the Scotch call
snuff _snish_, or _snishen_.

HENRY. T. RILEY.

_John Bale, Bishop of Ossory._--A _complete_ list of the works of this
voluminous writer, giving the titles in full, will be thankfully
acknowledged; also any facts as to his life, not generally known. There is
a very imperfect list of Bale's _Works_ given in Harris's _Ware's Bishops_,
and most of the Biographical Dictionaries.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

_Proxies for absent Sponsors._--Can any of your readers mention earlier
instances than the following of the attendance of proxies on behalf of
absent sponsors?

    "My daughter, Elizabeth Burrell, was born on Thursday, 25th June, 1696
    ... She was baptized on Monday, 15th February. My brother, P. Burrell
    (by Wm. Board, Esq.), Godfather, my Lady Gee (by my sister Parker), and
    my niece Jane Burrell, Godmothers."--"Extracts from the Journal and
    Account-Book of Timothy Burrell, Esq., Barrister-at-Law of Ockenden
    House, Cuckfield" (_Sussex Archæological Collections_, vol. iii.
    p. 131.).

E. M.

Hastings.

{325}

_Heraldic Query._--Names of the families bearing the following coats of
arms are requested:

1. Ermine, on a chief sable, two griffins segreant combatant argent.
_Crest_, a demylyon affrontée or.

2. Azure, a bend or, between three spear-heads argent. _Crest_, an armed
arm, embowed, grasping a broken spear.

3. Barry of six or and sable (with quarterings). _Crest_, on coil of rope a
dog sable collared argent.

E. D.

_Christmas Ballad._--Perhaps some of your correspondents may be able to
throw some light upon the following verses, which are sung by the waits at
Christmas in the neighbourhood of Falmouth:

 "Twelve is twelve as goes to hell,
  Eleven is eleven as goes to heaven,
  Ten is the Ten Commandments,
  Nine is nine so bright to shine,
  Eight is the gable angels,
  Seven is the seven stars of the sky,
  And six is the six bold waiters,
  Five is the flamboys under the bough,
  And four is the Gospel preachers;
  Three of them is thrivers (shrivers?),
  Two of them is lilywhite babes, and clothed all in green oh!
  And One is One, and all alone, and ever more shall be so."

That the first line alludes to the fate of the twelfth apostle is evident.
The meaning of the second, third, sixth, ninth, and last lines, is also
apparent. The others I am quite at a loss to explain.

C. M. G.

_Hay-bread Recipe._--The Query of your correspondent G. D. (Vol. ix.,
p. 148.) has reminded me of a question which I wish to ask. By what
chemical process may hay be converted into bread?

E. W. J.

_Te Deum._--We read frequently of this hymn being sung in the Russian
Church after victories. Can any of your correspondents inform me in what
language it is used in the Eastern Churches? It is, I believe, generally
admitted that it was originally composed in Latin for the use of the
Western Church; but if the Emperor Nicholas, in his famous manifesto (vide
Vol. viii., pp. 585. 655.), quotes from this hymn and not from the Psalms,
the one being quite as likely as the other, it would almost appear that the
Latin version is the one with which he is the most familiar.

HONORÉ DE MAREVILLE.

Guernsey.

_Mary Queen of Scots at Auchincas._--Auchincas is an interesting ruin on
the bank of the Evan in Dumfriesshire, the residence of Randolph, Earl of
Murray, Regent of Scotland in 1329. I have heard tradition to the effect
that when Mary Queen of Scots was fleeing towards England, she paused to
rest here. Can any of your readers confirm or contradict this tradition?

And can any of them furnish farther particulars regarding the history of
the same castle, in addition to those given in the ordinary gazetteers, and
in Black's _Guide to Moffat?_

ANNANDALE.

_Right of Refuge in the Church Porch._--In one of J. H. Parker's _Parochial
Tales_, a custom is spoken of as existing at the present time in Norfolk,
by which every parishioner has a right to make the church porch his
temporary home until he can find a lodging elsewhere. Is this a fact? In
the parish register of Flamstead, Herts, is an entry under the year 1578,
of the burial of a child and its father, "w^h bothe died in y^e church
porche."

CHEVERELLS.

_Christopher Lemying of Burneston._--The undersigned would be obliged to
any of the readers of "N. & Q." who would furnish him with the names of the
children and grandchildren of Christopher Lemying of Burneston, nigh
Lemying, in Richmondshire, com. York, who lived about A.D. 1600 and 1640?
And also with any information concerning the births and deaths of the same?
The Heralds' Visitations for the seventeenth century would probably afford
the information, but the writer has no access to them at present.

C. P. L.

_Ralph Ashton the Commander._--Your answer to my inquiry relative to
"Isabella, the wife of Ralph the Commander" (_Ashton_, Vol. ix., p. 272.),
induced me to refer to the work you quoted, Baines's _Lancashire_; but in
the list of her sons I did not find named one who is mentioned in the
ancient document I have spoken of, namely, "_James_, the son of Isabel, the
wife of Ralph the Commander." Did she survive her husband and marry a
second time; and, if so, what was his name? I ask this because, probably,
that would be the name of the son here alluded to. A reply to this Query
would oblige[3]

JAYTEE.

[Footnote 3: We cannot discover that Elizabeth Kaye, the wife of Ralph the
Commander, married the second time. See Burke's _Extinct Baronetcies_, pp.
21. 285., ed. 1838.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_Roman Roads in England._--Whose is the best treatise on the Roman roads in
England?

PRESTONIENSIS.

    [Although the credit and fidelity of Richard of Cirencester have
    frequently been attacked, still, as {326} Gibbon remarks, "he shows a
    genuine knowledge of antiquity very extraordinary for a monk of the
    fourteenth century." In 1809, an edition was published in London,
    entitled _The Description of Britain_, translated from Ricardus of
    Cirencester, with the original treatise _De Situ Britanniæ_, with a map
    and a fac-simile of the MS., as well as a Commentary on the Itinerary.
    It has been reprinted in the _Six Old English Chronicles_ in Bohn's
    _Antiquarian Library_, but without the map. The Itinerary contains
    eighteen journeys, which Richard says he compiled from certain
    fragments written by a Roman general, and from Ptolemy and other
    authors. He mentions 176 stations, while Antoninus has only 113.]

_Inscription on the Brass of Sir G. Felbrigge._--Can any of your numerous
correspondents afford me an explanation of the following fragment of an
inscription from the brass of Sir George Felbrigge, Playford, Suffolk? Each
word is separated by the letter [Old English M], and a demi-rose conjoined.
The part enclosed in brackets is now lost, but was remaining in Gough's
time:

    "Funda de per a dieu loange et dieu pur lalme de lui al [dieu quil est
    pete ei(t) ceste]."

This is the order in which the words now stand; but as they are quite
unintelligible, and the fillet shows evident signs of having been broken in
several places, we may reasonably suppose that they were misplaced when the
brass was moved from its original slab. The principal word, about which I
am in difficulty, is _pete_. Can it be the same as "pitië?" If so, I
venture to suggest the following explanation, till some one may offer me a
better:

    "... _fils_ de père _qui_ funda ceste _place_, à dieu est loange et
    qu'il eit pitië, _priez_ pur l'alme de lui à dieu."

The words printed in Italics are supplied to complete the sense.

F. G.

    [Perhaps the following words in Italics may be supplied for those
    obliterated: "Ceste _Chaunterie estait_ fonde de part _de George
    Felbrigge, Ch^r._ A Dieu _soit_ loange _et gloire_ ... priez pur l'asme
    de lui a Dieu quil eit pite ..."

    The following notice of the destruction of this beautiful brass is
    given in Davy's Suffolk Collections, Add. MSS. 19,086. p. 342.: "The
    brass in memory of Sir George Felbrigge, which had for a long time been
    covered by the pews, was three or four years ago, in consequence of
    some repairs, uncovered, when the incumbent and his curate had it torn
    from the stone, and it was for some time lying in pieces at the mercy
    of any pilferer. Mr. Albert Way, the Director of the Society of
    Antiquaries in Feb. 1844, wrote to me, to ask what was become of the
    figure; and, in consequence, as I had not an opportunity of visiting
    the church myself, I wrote to Mr. Arthur Biddell for information; and
    the following is a copy of his answer, dated Feb. 23, 1844:
    'Felbrigge's monument was removed, much against my wishes, from its
    former place in the N. E. corner of the church to the chancel under the
    communion table, where it is fixed; forming part of the pavement. The
    broken pieces of brass are again fixed in the stone; but so many of the
    pieces were long ago lost, and I think those which were lately
    separated from the stone are not placed in their original position: so,
    except the figure, there is little remains to convey an idea of the
    ornamental and beautiful work by which the figure was surrounded.'"]

_Skipwith._--

    "'Here lyeth the body of William Skipwith, Baronet, who deceased the
    25th of February, 1764, aged fifty-six years. He descended from Sir
    Henry Skipwith of Prestwould, in Leicestershire, created baronet by
    King James I., was honoured with King Charles I.'s commission for
    raising men against the usurping powers, and proved loyal to his king,
    so that he was deprived of his estate by the usurper, which occasioned
    his and his sons' death, except Sir Gray Skipwith, grandfather of the
    abovesaid Sir William Skipwith, who was obliged to come to Virginia for
    refuge, where the family hath continued ever since.'

    "Inscription copied from tombstone of Sir William, who lies buried at
    Greencroft, near Petersburg, Virginia."--See _South. Messenger_, vol.
    ix. p. 591.

I should be obliged for information as to Sir Henry.

T. BALCH.

Philadelphia.

    [Sir Henry Skipwith was created a baronet Dec. 20, 1622, and in 1629
    obtained, jointly with Sir Thomas Walsingham, Knt., a grant of lands in
    the counties of Leicester, Derby, &c.; in 1631 a grant of free-warren
    for his lands in Leicestershire; in 1636 was high sheriff for the
    county; and in 1637 certain amerciaments against him on account of that
    office, which had been returned into the Court of Chancery, were
    certified to the Court of Exchequer. Heartily espousing the cause of
    Charles I., he was one of the Commissioners of Array for this county,
    and on May 28, 1645, had the honour of entertaining his sovereign at
    Cotes, after which he was fined 1114l. by the parliamentary
    sequestrators. He was the last of the family who resided at Cotes; and
    amongst his poems is "An Elegy on the Death of my never enough lamented
    master, King Charles I." The others are chiefly of a melancholy turn.
    Sir Henry, his second son, died soon after his father, unmarried;
    whereupon his title and estate went to his next brother Sir Gray, who,
    after the death of the king, went with several other gentlemen, to
    avoid the usurpation, over to Virginia, and there married, and left one
    son.--Nichols's _Leicestershire_, vol. iii. p. 367., which also
    contains a pedigree of the family. Consult also Lloyd's _Worthies_,
    p. 649.]

_College Battel._--What is the derivation of a word peculiar to the
universities, _battels_: is it connected with _batten?_

S. A.

    [In Todd's _Johnson_ we read, "BATTEL, from Sax. [taelan] or [tellan],
    to count, or reckon, having the prefix _be_. The account of the
    expenses of a student in {327} any college in Oxford." In the _Gent.
    Mag._ for Aug. 1792, p. 716., a correspondent offers the following
    probable etymology: "It is probably derived from the German _bezahlen_;
    in Low German and Dutch _bettahlen_; in Welsh _talz_; which signifies
    to pay; whence may be derived likewise the English verb _to tale_, and
    the noun a _tale_, or _score_, if not the corrupted expressions _to
    tell_ or _number_, and _to tally_ or _agree_."]

_Origin of Clubs._--Can any of your correspondents inform me from whence
the cognomen of "club" came to be applied to select companies, and which
was the first society that bore that title?

F. R. B.

    [Club is defined by Johnson to be "an assembly of good fellows, meeting
    under certain conditions." The present system of clubs may be traced in
    its progressive steps from those small associations, meeting (as clubs
    of a lower grade still do) at a house of public entertainment; then we
    come to a time when the club took exclusive possession of the house,
    and strangers could be only introduced, under regulations, by the
    members; in the third stage, the clubs build houses, or rather palaces,
    for themselves. The club at the Mermaid Tavern in Friday Street was,
    according to all accounts, the first select company established, and
    owed its origin to Sir Walter Raleigh, who had here instituted a
    meeting of men of wit and genius, previously to his engagement with the
    unfortunate Cobham. This society comprised all that the age held most
    distinguished for learning and talent, numbering amongst its members
    Shakspeare, Ben Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher, Selden, Sir Walter
    Raleigh, Donne, Cotton, Carew, Martin, and many others. There it was
    that the "wit-combats" took place between Shakspeare and Ben Johson, to
    which, probably, Beaumont alludes with so much affection in his letter
    to the old poet, written from the country:

                     "What things have we seen
      Done at the Mermaid! heard words that have been
      So nimble and so full of subtle flame,
      As if that every one from whom they came
      Had meant to put his whole wit in a jest."

    Ben Jonson had another club, of which he appears to have been the
    founder, held in a room of the old Devil Tavern, distinguished by the
    name of the "Apollo." It stood between the Temple Gates and Temple Bar.
    It was for this Club that Jonson wrote the "Leges Convivales," printed
    among his works.]

_Royal Arms in Churches._--When were the Royal Arms first put up in
churches?

Are churchwardens compelled to place them over the chancel arch, or in any
part of the building over which their jurisdiction extends?

In a church without an heraldic coat of Royal Arms, can a churchwarden, or
the incumbent _refuse_ legally to put up such a decoration, it being the
gift of a parishioner?

AZURE.

    [For replies to AZURE'S first Query, see our Sixth Volume _passim_. The
    articles at pp. 227. and 248. of the same volume incidentally notice
    his other queries.]

_Odd Fellows._--What is the origin of Odd Fellowship? What gave rise to the
title of Odd Fellows? Are there any books published on the subject, and
where are they to be had? Is there any published record of the origin and
progress of the Manchester Unity?

C. F. A. W.

    [Our correspondent should consult _The Odd Fellows Magazine_, New
    Series, published Quarterly by order of the Grand Master and Board of
    Directors of the Manchester Unity of the Independent Order of Odd
    Fellows. We have only seen vols. i. to vii., which appeared between
    1828 and 1842. Perhaps some of our readers may wish to know what is an
    Odd Fellow. Take the following description of one as given in vol. iv.
    p. 287.: "He is like a fox for cunning; a dove for tameness; a lamb for
    innocence; a lion for boldness; a bee for industry; and a sheep for
    usefulness. This is an Odd Fellow according to Odd Fellowship."]

_Governor-General of India._--Will some of your learned readers be good
enough to inform me upon what authority the present Governor-General of
India is styled, in all official notices, "The Most Noble?" I have always
understood the style of a Marquis to be "Most Honorable."

NOVICE.

    [Official notices from public departments are frequently incorrect in
    reference to the styles of persons. The style of a Marquis is only
    _Most Honorable_, that of Duke _Most Noble_.]

_Precedence._--Supposing an earl's daughter marries a commoner, do her
children by him take precedence as the earl's grandchildren?

SNOB.

    [The children take only the precedence derived from their _paternal_
    status.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

MARMORTINTO, OR SAND-PAINTING.

(Vol. ix., p. 217.)

Mr. Haas, a native of Bibrach, in Germany, was accustomed to lay claim to
the invention of sand-painting; and would often with a little pride repeat
to his friends the way in which it was first suggested to his mind. Simply
this:--Once, while he was engaged ornamenting a plateau with an elaborate
and rich design, King George III. entered the apartment; and after having
regarded the design and _modum operandi_ for some considerable time in
silence, exclaimed, in an impatient manner, as if vexed that so much beauty
should be so short-lived: "Haas! Haas! you ought to fasten it." From that
moment, the artist turned his ingenuity to the subject: and how
successfully, his pictures show.

The remarks of F. C. H. as to the mode of painting are quite correct. The
fixing of the {328} sand was the last operation, inasmuch as I have heard
of the artist's wrath visiting a poor pussy because she had shaken a
picture, and thereby disturbed the sand not yet fixed. The secret died with
him and a friend, a contemporaneous artist, to whom I believe he had
communicated the secret; this friend's name I do not know. Mr. Haas painted
landscapes, the friend painted cattle pieces. I have in my possession some
of Mr. Haas' work. It is beautifully soft and quiet. The foliage is fine in
the extreme, withal a rich depth of colouring. The Welsh scenery he felt
most at home in, he threw into it a spirit of repose: while it was bold,
there was nothing harsh or offensive to the eye. I have tried many
experiments with one of this pictures: amongst other things, I find the
least moisture will remove the sand. Mr. Haas had a gallery in London for
some time (I believe in Regent Street), where there were portraits done in
sand. A portrait of himself was considered the gem of the pictures: such a
vitality and delicacy of colouring did it possess. I mention this merely to
show that sand could be applied to other branches of art besides
landscapes. The history of the pictures at Windsor Castle is to be seen in
one of the old _Windsor Guides_. Mr. Hans died at Bibrach, where doubtless
many of his pictures are.

Sand-paintings cannot last long; they have in themselves the element of
their own destruction, "their rough surface," which very soon collects and
retains the dust. I never heard of their being cleaned.

JOHN MUMMERY.

Queenwood College, Stockbridge, Hants.

       *       *       *       *       *

O'BRIEN OF THOSMOND.

(Vol. ix., p. 125.)

In corroboration of my former suggestion, that Nicholas Thosmound of
Somersetshire was an O'Brien of Thomond, I beg to add some farther facts.
Cotemporary with him was William Toutmound, who obtained in the sixth year
of Henry IV. a grant of the office (in England) of chief carpenter of the
king for his life. This singular office, "Capitalis Carpentarius Regis,"
must, I suppose, be called Lord High Carpenter of England, in analogy with
the offices of steward, butler, &c. It is mentioned in the _Calendar of
Patent Rolls of England_ at the 6 Henry IV.; and in the same repository is
mention of a grant long before by Henry III. of the land of Tosmond in
Ireland, to A. R. Tosmond (R standing, I presume, for "Regi," for the Irish
Toparchs were then thus designated by the English government). In this case
then we have the letter _s_ used for _t_, as in the _Inq. P. M._ of Alicia,
wife of the before-mentioned Nicholas Thosmound. In the _Abbreviatio
Rotulorum Originalium of England_, in 15 Edw. II., is the expression
"Regalitatem de Totamon," applied to the district of Thomond in Ireland. It
seems not unlikely that the two cotemporary individuals mentioned above
were sons or grandsons of Turloch, or Tirrèlagh, O'Brien, sovereign of
Thomond from 1367 to 1370, when he was supplanted by his nephew Brien
O'Brien, ancestor of the Marquis of Thomond. For this Turloch was in some
favour with the government, by whom his distress was sometimes relieved.
Thus it appears from the printed calendar of Irish Chancery Rolls, that a
writ of _liberate_ issued in the 4th Rich. II. for the payment to him of
forty marks; and again, 5 Rich. II., of twenty marks, "ei concord. [p=]
recompens. labor." He was much befriended by the Earl of Desmond, whose
successor being high in favour with the kings Henry V. and VI., obtained a
large grant of land in the county of Waterford, which he immediately
conferred on the sons of Turloch. Yet some of those sons may, through his
interest, have been established in England. It becomes, therefore, a matter
of considerable interest to ascertain whether the _Inq. P. M._ 2 Henry IV.
contains any proof that Nicholas Thosmound was an O'Brien.

While on this subject, may I inquire the reason why the O'Briens quarter
with their own arms the bearing of three piles meeting in a point? These
latter were the arms of the English baronial family of Bryan, not at all
connected with the Irish family. I suspect the Irish were late in their
assumption of arms, and borrowed in many cases the arms of English families
of nearly similar names.

A. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORONATION STONE.

(Vol. ix., p. 123.)

Possibly the following authorities may tend to throw light upon the
question started by your correspondent.

In _Ant. Univ. Hist._, vol. xvii. p. 287., 4to. ed., London, 1747, it is
said:

    "St. Austin tells us that some of the Carthaginian divinities had the
    name of Abaddires, and their priests that of Eucaddires. This class, in
    all probability, was derived from the stone which Jacob anointed with
    oil, after it had served him for a pillow the night he had his vision;
    for in the morning he called the place where he lay Bethel. Now it is
    no wonder this should have been esteemed as sacred, since God himself
    says, he was the GOD OF BETHEL, the place where Jacob anointed the
    pillar. From Bethel came the bætylus of Damascius, which we find called
    Abaddir by Priscian. This Abaddir is the Phoenician Aban-dir, that is,
    the spherical stone, exactly answering to the description of the
    bætylus given us by Damascius and others. The case seems to have been
    this; the Canaanites of the neighbourhood first worshipped the
    individual stone itself, upon which Jacob had poured {329} oil;
    afterwards they consecrated others of that form, and worshipped them;
    which false worship was perpetuated even to the time of St.
    Austin."--See note (N), _Ant. Univ. Hist._, vol. i. p. 310.

Now if such stones were an object of worship among the Phoenicians, nothing
is more probable than that they should take such a stone along with them in
their migrations to new settlements; and it may therefore well be that the
Phoenicians, who first settled in Ireland, did bring such a stone with
them; and hence possibly the tradition in question may have originated.

There is abundant evidence that the Phoenicians fled from Palestine in very
early times (_Ant. Univ. Hist._, vol. iii. p. 479.), and probably some of
the Jews also about the time when Samaria was taken; and there can be no
doubt that some Phoenicians, if not some Jews, settled in these islands at
a very remote period; and it is a very remarkable fact that the Welsh
spoken in North Wales is said to be nearer to the old Hebrew than any other
existing language, and varying no more from it than the great length of
time which has passed would lead any one to expect. (_Ant. Univ. Hist._,
vol. vi. p. 31. note.)

It should seem that some at least of the bætyli were round, and of such a
size that they might be carried about by their votaries either by hanging
at the neck or in some other way (_Ant. Univ. Hist._, vol. xvii. p. 287.
_x._). But probably they were originally in the shape of a pillow. In Gen.
xxviii. 18., it is said that Jacob "took the stone that he had put for his
pillow, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it;"
from which it is plain that the stone was not a sphere, but oblong and flat
at the top and bottom; and probably not with square edges, as that would be
most uncomfortable to lay the head upon.[4]

S. G. C.

[Footnote 4: Query whether from these bætyli our ancestors derived the word
_beetle_, which denotes a wooden maul or hammer for driving wedges. Its
head is about a foot long, flat at each end, and the rest round; so that it
nearly resembles a pillow in shape, and the head, together with its handle,
would well resemble a stone of similar shape suspended by a cord in the
middle. Bailey derives the word in this sense, and as denoting the insect,
from Sax. [Bytel]. If a handle was ever put in a bætylus, which was of the
form I have suggested, it would form an excellent instrument for driving
wedges or the like.]

Thirty years ago, the coronation stone in Westminster Abbey stood under a
very old chair; and was a bluish irregular block of stone, similar both in
colour and shape to stepping-stones in the shallow rivers of the north of
England. It is _now_ a very nice hewn block, nicely fitted into the frame
under the seat of a renovated chair. It does not look at all like the old
stone of former days. Is the geological formation of the present block very
difficult to ascertain?

H. R. NÉE F.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLYGAMY.

(Vol. ix., p. 246.)

In answer to the various Queries of _Stylites_ I have to observe:

1. That the Jews do not at present, in any country, practise polygamy, it
being contrary, not to the letter, but to the spirit of the law of Moses,
which nevertheless provides for cases where a man has two wives at the same
time; the inconvenience of which practice is several times pointed out, and
which was also inconsistent with the Levirate law. (See Jahn, § 151.; and
the Mishna, [Hebrew: SDR NSHYM], which designates more wives than one
[Hebrew: TSRWT], _trouble, adversaries_.)

2. The practice was, however, allowed expressly to the Jewish kings only,
perhaps to the extent of _four_ wives, which is the Rabbinic exposition,
and coincides with the Koran.

3. Marriage being a civil contract in most heathen countries, as also
amongst the Jews and early Christians, polygamy is not forbidden or allowed
on religious grounds. Marriage was included under the general head of
covenants, [Hebrew: KTWBWT], in the Mishna. Barbarous nations generally
practised polygamy, according to Tacitus (_Germ._ 18.); excepting the
Germans, who, like the Greeks and Romans, "were content with a single
wife," although some exceptions were found in this respect, _non libidine,
sed ob nobilitatem_.

4. Polygamy was not practised amongst the early Christians, who followed
the Jews in this matter.

5. Clement of Alexandria (_Stromata_, lib. iii. p. 461., edit. 1629) says:

    "[Greek: All' ho autos anêr kai Kurios, palaia kainizôn, ou polugamian
    eti sunchôrei; tote gar apêtei ho Theos, hote auxanesthai kai
    plêthunein echrên; monogamian de eisagei, dia paidopoiian, kai tên tou
    oikou kêdemonian, eis ên boêthos edothê hê gunê]."

Whence it appears that to have progeny and a helpmate at home were the
objects proposed in matrimony, for which polygamy was unfavorable. He then
remarks on the privilege conceded to some to form a second marriage, after
the death of the first wife, which St. Paul forbids to a bishop, who was to
be, in the _modern_ sense of the word, a monogamist. Two wives at the same
time were wholly repugnant to Jewish, as well as Greek and Roman,
sentiment. Ignatius (_ad Polyc. 5._) says it is _proper_ ([Greek: prepei])
for married persons to unite under the bishop's advice, so that the
marriage may be [Greek: kata Theon] and not [Greek: kat' epithumian];
whence it is inferred that a marriage was {330} valid in his time, although
no religious sanction was obtained.

It appears from Our Lord's remarks, Matt. xix. 8., Mark x. 5., that the
consuetudinary law of marriage was not wholly abrogated, but was
accommodated to the Jews by the Mosaic code. To understand this subject,
therefore, the ancient usages and existing practices must be weighed, as
well from ancient authors as from modern travellers. Whence it appears that
the contract of marriage, whereby a man received a wife in consideration of
a certain sum of money paid to her father, contemplated progeny as its
special object.[5] In default of an heir the Jew took a second wife, it
being assumed that the physical defect was on the wife's part. If the
second had no child he took a third, and in like default a fourth, which
was the limit as understood by the rabbins, and is now the limit assigned
by the Mahometan doctors. But the Mosaic law proceeded even beyond this,
and allowed, on the husband's death, the right of _Iboom_, usually called
the Levirate law, so that in case of there being _no_ child, some _one_ of
the deceased's brothers had a right to take some _one_ of the deceased's
wives: and their progeny was deemed by the Mosaic code to be his deceased
brother's, whose property indeed devolved in the line of such progeniture.
It would appear that it was usual for the eldest brothers to marry, the
younger brothers remaining single. This was a remnant, as modified by
Moses, of the custom of polyandry, several brothers taking one wife,--a
sort of necessary result of polygamy, since the number of males and females
born is equal in all countries, within certain limits of variation. The
best authorities on this subject are the Mishna, Selden, Du Halde, Niebuhr,
Süsmilch, and Michälis, the last in Dr. Smith's translation, at the
beginning of the 2nd volume.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

[Footnote 5: In the recent ceremony of the French emperor's marriage, money
was presented to the bride.]

STYLITES says, "On what ground has polygamy become forbidden among
Christians? I am not aware that it is directly forbidden by Scripture." In
reply to this I venture to say, that the Divine will on this matter was
sufficiently indicated at the creation, when one woman was appointed for
one man, as expressed in Gen. ii. 24., and quoted by Our Lord, with the
significant addition of the word _twain_: "They twain shall be one flesh"
(Matt. xix. 5.). _Twain_, i.e. two; not twenty, nor any indefinite number.
Moreover, the law of nature speaks, in the nearly equal numbers of men and
women that are born, or, as in this parish, by making the men the more
numerous.

But STYLITES starts a most interesting question in a practical point of
view. It is admitted that the Gospel is not very explicit respecting
polygamy; and why so? Possibly the Gospel was purposely kept silent; and
the Church allowed some latitude in judgment upon a very difficult point,
because it was foreseen that the custom of polygamy would prove one of the
greatest obstacles to a reception of pure Christianity. This difficulty is
of constant occurrence in heathen lands at the present day. The Christian
missionary insists upon the convert abandoning all his wives, except the
one whom he first married. This woman was probably childless; and because
she was so, he formed other and _legal_ connexions. But before he can be
received as a Christian, he must dissolve all these later ties, and
bastardise children who were innocently born in lawful wedlock. The
conditions are very awful. An act of cruelty and injustice has to be
performed by one who is on the point of entering the threshold of
Christianity!

Perhaps these considerations may serve to account for the comparative
silence of the Gospel upon a subject which seemed to require the expression
of a direct command, whilst they will in no way obscure its
universally-admitted meaning.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETICAL TAVERN SIGNS.

(Vol. ix., p. 58.)

The subjoined lines address themselves to the traveller, as he looks on the
sign of "The Rodney's Pillar" inn at Criggirn, a hamlet on the borders of
Montgomeryshire and this county:

 "Under these trees, in sunny weather,
  Just try a cup of ale, however;
  And if in tempest or in storm,
  A couple then to make you warm;
  But when the day is very cold,
  Then taste a mug a twelvemonth old."

          _Reverse side._

 "Rest, and regale yourself: 'tis pleasant.
    Enough is all the prudent need.
  That's the due of the hardy peasant,
    Who toils all sorts of men to feed.

 "Then 'muzzle not the ox when he treads out corn,'
  Nor grudge honest labour its pipe and its horn."

G. H. BILLINGTON.

The following, although not a _tavern_ sign, may be worth preserving. I saw
it under a painting of an ox, which adorned a butcher's shop at Ischl, in
Upper Austria, A.D. 1835:

 "Der Ochs besteht aus Fleisch und Bein zum laufen,
  Darum kann ich das Fleisch nicht ohne Bein verkaufen."

J. C. R.

{331}

In the parlour of the "Three Pigeons," Brentford, is an old painting, dated
1704, representing a landlord attending to his guests seated at a table in
the open air, with these lines above:

 "Wee are new beginners,
    And thrive wee would faine;
  I am Honest Ralf of Reading,
    My wife Susand to name."

Wright, in his _Historia Histronica_, 1699, tells us that--

    "Lowin (one of the original actors in Shakspeare's plays), in his
    latter days, kept an inn, the 'Three Pigeons,' at Brentford, where he
    died very old."

At the "Old Parr's Head," Aldersgate Street, was, in 1825, a sign of an
ancient gentleman, with these lines under:

 "Your head cool,
    Your feet warm;
  But a glass of good gin
    Would do you no harm."

The author of _Tavern Anecdotes_, 12mo., 1825, records the following:

      _"Rhyming Host at Stratford._

  At the Swan Tavern, kept by Lound,
  The best accommodation's found--
  Wine, spirits, porter, bottled beer,
  You'll find in high perfection here.
  If, in the garden with your lass,
  You feel inclin'd to take a glass,
  There tea and coffee, of the best,
  Provided is for every guest;
  And, females not to drive from hence,
  His charge is only fifteen pence.
  Or, if dispos'd a pipe to smoke,
  To sing a song, or crack a joke,
  You may repair across the green,
  Where nought is heard, tho' much is seen:
  There laugh, and drink, and smoke away,
  And but a mod'rate reck'ning pay,--
  Which is a most important object,
  To every loyal British subject.

              In short,
  The best accommodation's found,
  By those who deign to visit Lound."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

1. At a public-house near Cambridge, known to the natives of Cambridgeshire
as "Tew-Pot House," formerly kept by one Cooper, there used to be, I cannot
say decidedly is, as I have not passed the place for ten years and more,
the following:

 "Rest, traveller, rest; lo! Cooper's hand
  Obedient brings two pots at thy command.
  Rest, traveller, rest, and banish thoughts of care.
  Drink to thy friends, and recommend them here."

2. The Robin Hood inscription is found, with a very little variation, in
front of a public-house at Cherryhinton, at the corner of the road to
Fulbourn, in this county.

3. Who can forget the suggestion by Walter Scott, of

 "Drink, weary traveller, drink and _pay_,"

as a motto for the public-house at Flodden? (See Lockhart's _Life of
Scott_, cap. xxv.)

I remember seeing the following in the parlour of a house at Rancton, I
believe in Norfolk:

 "More   beer   score   clerk
  For    my     my      his
  Do     trust  pay     sent
  I      I      must    have
  Shall  if     I       brewer
  What   and    and     my."[6]

P. J. F. GANTILLON.

[Footnote 6: Begin with the bottom word of the right-hand column and read
upwards, treating the other columns in a similar way.]

In Deansgate, Manchester, under an artistic representation of Llangollen
Castle, is the following:

 "Near the above place, in a vault,
    There is such liquor fixed,
  You'll say that water, hops, and malt
    Were never better mixed."

As a parallel to the case cited by NEWBURIENSIS, I may mention the sign of
the "BROWN COW," near the village of Glodwick, Oldham:

 "This cow gives such liquor,
  'Twould puzzle a viccar" [_sic_].

JOHN SCRIBE.

The following verse from the sign-board of the Bull Inn at Buckland near
Dover, may not be an uninteresting addition to your list of poetical tavern
signs.

 "The bull is tame, so fear him not,
  All the while you pay your shot;
  When money's gone, and credit's bad,
  It's that which makes the bull run mad!"

FRAS. BRENT.

Sandgate.

At the Red Lion, Stretton, near Warmington:

 "The Lion is strong, the Cat is vicous[_sic_],
  My ale is good, and so is my liquors."

E. P. PALING.

February 20, 1854.

At Swainsthorpe, a village five miles from Norwich, on the road to Ipswich,
is a public-house known as the "Dun Cow." Under the portrait of the cow, in
former days, stood the following couplet:

 "Walk in, gentlemen; I trust you'll find
  The dun cow's milk is to your mind."

{332} Whether it still remains I know not, as many years have gone by since
I passed that way.

T. B. B. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

"BEHEMOTH."

(Vol. ix., p. 77.)

Hobbes's _Behemoth_ forms the eighth tract in the collection relating to
the civil wars by the Baron Maseres (1815), and occupies nearly 200 pages.
The Baron, in his Preface (pp. lxxviii., lxxix.) gives the following
character of the work:

    "It is written in a very clear and lively style, and contains a great
    deal of curious historical matter concerning the rise and gradual
    increase of the Pope's power over temporal princes: the prohibition of
    marriage in secular priests; the doctrine of transubstantiation; the
    institution of auricular confession to a priest; the institution of
    Orders of preaching friars; and the institution of Universities and
    Schools of Disputation; (all which institutions, he observes, had a
    tendency to increase the power of the Pope, and were made for that
    purpose,) which is set forth in pp. 467, 468., &c., to p. 472. And much
    other interesting matter, concerning the sentiments of the Presbyterian
    ministers, the Papists, the Independents, and other sectaries. The
    pretensions made by them to Spiritual Power, and the nature of heresies
    and the history of them, is clearly and justly described in another
    part of it; over and above the narration of the several events of the
    civil war itself, which I believe to be faithful and exact in point of
    fact, though with a different judgment of Mr. Hobbes as to the moral
    merit of the persons concerned in producing them, from that which, I
    presume, will be formed by many of the readers of this history at this
    day; which difference of judgment between Mr. Hobbes and the present
    readers of this work, will be a necessary consequence, from Mr.
    Hobbes's having entertained two very important opinions concerning the
    nature of civil government in general, and of the monarchical
    government of England in particular, which in the present age are
    thought, by almost every Englishman who has paid any attention to the
    subject, to be exceedingly erroneous."

Subjoined to his reprint of this tract, the Baron has appended remarks on
some particular passages therein, which appeared to him to contain
erroneous opinions.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

_Photographic Slides for the Magic Lantern._--Might not the collodion
process be applied very usefully in the preparation of slides for the magic
lantern?

Good slides are always expensive, owing, in great measure, to the accuracy
required, where every defect will be magnified some hundred times.

I would suggest that a photographic picture should be taken on the glass
plate, and then varnished. The painter should then apply his colours to the
_opposite_ side of the glass, using the photographic image as his outline.
The colours would then be burnt in, and the varnish and collodion film
cleared off.

This plan would be especially useful when the photographic picture had been
taken by the microscope.

THOS. SCOTT, B.A.

Brighton.

_Albumenized Paper._--If MR. HELE will follow the directions contained in a
paper of mine which you published in Vol. ix., p. 206., for albumenizing
paper, I think he will have no reason to complain of waves, or streaks, or
blotches, and will be saved the trouble of the damping process which he
uses and recommends to others. ("N. & Q.," Vol. ix., p. 254.) I have done a
considerable quantity of paper of Canson, both positive and negative, and
also of other makers, Whatman, Turner, Sandford, and Nash, and in all I
have succeeded perfectly in obtaining an even coating of albumen. I am
convinced from my own experience that the cause of waviness, &c., is due to
raising the paper from the albumen _too slowly_. If the paper be snatched
hastily from the solution, air bubbles no doubt will be formed; but if the
paper be raised with a steady even motion, _not too slow_, the albumen will
flow evenly from the paper, and it will dry with a perfectly even surface.

MR. SHADBOLT is certainly mistaken in saying that positives printed from
negatives will not stand a saturated solution of hypo. soda, unless they be
printed so intensely dark that all traces of a picture by reflected light
are obliterated. I have used nothing but a saturated solution for fixing my
positives for a considerable time, and my experience agrees with that of
other of your correspondents, that the picture is not as much reduced by a
saturated solution as by a weaker one. By adding about one grain of sel
d'or to every eight ounces of saturated solution, very rich black tones
will be obtained.

I inclose a specimen of what I have got in this way.

C. E. F.

    [The specimen sent is most satisfactory; we wish that the locality of
    the view had been stated.--ED.]

_Mounting Positives on Cardboard._--In the absence of any other reply to
J. L. S. (Vol. ix., p. 282.), the following, as the method I always adopt,
may serve his purpose.

Having cut the positive to the size required, and trimmed the edges, place
it upon the cardboard to which it is intended to be attached, and carefully
centre it; then with a pencil make a slight dot at each of the angles.
Remove the proof, and lay it _face downwards_ upon a piece of clean paper
or a cloth, and with any convenient brush smear it evenly over with a paste
made of arrowroot, taking care not to have more than just enough to cover
it without leaving any patches. Place it gently on the cardboard, holding
it for the purpose by two _opposite_ angles, and with a silk handkerchief
dab it gently, beginning in the middle, and work any little superfluity of
the paste towards the edges, when it will be gradually pressed out. The
whole may be placed in a press, or under a pile of books to dry. {333}

My object in using arrowroot is simply that of having a _pure starch_
without colour, and it serves as a size to the paper, which has lost that
originally in it by the repeated washings, &c.

The paste is made very thin, thus:--Put a teaspoonful of arrowroot (not
_heaped_) into a teacup with about two spoonfuls of cold water, and mix
into a paste: then add _boiling_ water enough to fill the cup, and stir.
Many photographers merely attach the _edges_ of their pictures, but I
prefer them to adhere all over. Gum is fatal to the beauty of a photograph,
unless it is previously re-sized.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

_Mr. Lyte's Collodion_ (Vol. ix., p. 225.).--Our readers may remember that
in "N. & Q.," Feb. 18, MR. F. MAXWELL LYTE furnished our readers with a
detailed plan of his mode of preparing collodion. In that article, written
from Pau, that gentleman was so good as to promise us that when he had an
opportunity he would send us a couple of specimens of his workmanship. He
has more than fulfilled his promise, for we have received from him this
week four photographs, which, for general beauty and minuteness of detail,
cannot be surpassed. The subjects are, I. Study of Trees, No. 2.; II. Study
of Trees, No. 5. Old Pollard Oak; III. Study of Trees, Peasants collecting
Leaves; IV. Old Church Porch, Morlâas, Monogram of the Eleventh Century.
MR. LYTE, who is a first-rate chemist, has shown himself by these specimens
to be also a first-rate practical photographer. From him, therefore, the
art may look for much future progress.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy"_ (Vol. ix., p. 191.).--DR. RIMBAULT may
perhaps be interested in hearing that some years ago I urged upon two
London publishers the desirableness of bringing out a new edition of
Burton's _Anatomy of Melancholy_, but they both declined to undertake the
work. I then resolved to publish myself the _latter_ part of the work (on
_Religious Melancholy_), and made known my intention in. "N. & Q.," in the
hope of obtaining some casual notes and observations; but in this also I
was disappointed. As, however, my intention is only suspended for the
present, not abandoned, I shall be obliged by any assistance that DR.
RIMBAULT, or any of your readers, can afford me. Can any one correct the
following list of editions of the _Anatomy of Melancholy_?

  1621. 4to. Oxford.
  1624. fol. Oxford.
  1628. fol. Oxford.
  1632. fol. Oxford.
  1638. fol.
  1651-2. fol.
  1660. fol. London.
  1676. fol.
  1728. fol.
  1738. fol.
  1800. fol. 2 vols.
  1804. 8vo. 2 vols.
  1806. 8vo. 2 vols.
  1827. 8vo. 2 vols.
  1829. 8vo. 2 vols.
  1837. 8vo. 2 vols.
  1839. 8vo.
  1845. 8vo.

If Watt's _Biblioth._ be correct, the _last_ folio edition was _not_ that
of 1676 (see "N. & Q.," Vol. ix., p. 121.); but on this and other similar
points I shall be glad to hear DR. RIMBAULT'S opinion.

M. D.

_Original Royal Letters to the Grand Masters of Malta_ (Vol. viii.,
p. 99.).--When making out the list of English Royal Letters, which has
already appeared in "N. & Q.," we were not aware that any others besides
those which we recorded at the time were to be found in the Record Office.
Since then Dr. Vella has examined other manuscript volumes, and,
fortunately, brought to light nine more autograph letters, to which,
according to their dates, we hope to call your attention hereafter. They
are as follows:

  +-------------+-------------------------+-----------------------------+
  |Writer.      |Date.                    |In what  |To whom addressed. |
  |             |                         |Language |                   |
  |             |                         |written. |                   |
  +-------------+-------------------------+-----------------------------+
  |Charles II.  |28th November, 1670.     |Latin.   |Nicholas Cotoner.  |
  |Ditto        |12th February, 1674.     |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |Ditto        |19th May, 1675.          |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |Ditto        |28th October, 1676.      |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |Ditto        |2nd November, 1678.      |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |James II.*   |24th August, 1685.       |Ditto.   |Gregory Caraffa.   |
  |Ditto        |10th day of Jan. 1686-7. |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |Ditto        |9th April, 1687.         |Ditto.   |Ditto.             |
  |George I.    |5th May, 1715.           |Ditto.   |Raymond Perellos.  |
  +-------------+-------------------------+-----------------------------+

* The letters of James II. are countersigned "Comes de Sunderland,"[7] and
that of George I. "I. Stanhope."

In our previous list an error occurred, which we would wish to correct. The
last letter of Henry VIII. was addressed to the Grand Master Pierre Du
Pont, and not to Nicholas Cotoner, who ascended the Maltese throne in 1663.
The translation of H. M.'s congratulatory letter to Du Pont, on his
election, we trust you have already received. We referred in our former
Note to a letter of Charles II., under date of "the last day of November,
1674," and since that came to our observation we have seen an _exact copy_
bearing the autograph of the king. This circumstance leads us to inquire at
what period, and with what English monarch, the custom of sending duplicate
letters originated? In the time of James II. it would appear to have been
followed, as one of H. M.'s letters is thus marked in his own handwriting.

We would state, before closing this Note, that the letters of James II. are
the earliest in date of any English royal letters filed away at this island
which are _countersigned, or bear the address_ of the Grand Master at the
foot of the first page, on the left-hand side, as is customary in writing
official letters to government officers at the present time.

Will any of your correspondents kindly inform us with what English monarch
the custom {334} originated of having his letters countersigned by a
minister, and of placing the address within the letter, as is the case in
those of James II. to which we have just referred?

WILLIAM WINTHROP.

La Valetta, Malta.

[Footnote 7: Robert Spencer, second Earl of Sunderland, K.G., was principal
Secretary of State during the latter years of Charles II. and the whole
reign of James II., and as such, when countersigning a royal letter, he
placed at the end of his signature the letter P.]

_Prince Charles' Attendants in Spain_ (Vol. ix., p. 272.).--In a small 4to.
MS. in my possession, entitled "A Narrative of Count Gondomar's Proceedings
in England," is the following list of "The Prince's Servants" who
accompanied him in his Journey into Spain:

 "_Master of the Horse_, Lord Andover.
  _Master of the Ward_, Lord Compton.
  _Chamberlain_, Lord Carey.
  _Comptroller_, Lord Vaughan.
  _Secretary_, Sir Francis Cottington.
  _Gentleman of the Bed-chamber_, Sir Robert Carr.

                           {Sir William Howard,
                           {Sir Edmund Verney,
                           {Sir William Crofts,
  _Gentlemen of the Privy_ {Sir Richard Wynne,
  _Chamber_                {Mr. Ralph Clare,
                           {Mr. John Sandilaus,
                           {Mr. Charles Glemham.
                           {Mr. Francis Carew.

  _Gentleman Usher of the Privy Chamber_, Sir John North.

                                     {Mr. Newton,
  _Gentlemen Ushers of the Presence_ {Mr. Young,
                                     {Mr. Tyrwhitt.
  _Grooms of the Bed-chamber_, five.
  _Pages_, three.
  _Chaplains_, two."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_Churchill's Grave_ (Vol. ix., p. 122.).--The fact that Churchill's grave
is at Dover, is not an obscure one. It was visited by Byron, who wrote a
poem on the subject, which will be found in his _Works_. This poem is
remarkable, among other things, from the circumstance that it is written in
avowed and serious imitation of the style of Wordsworth.

M. T. W.

"_Cissle_" (Vol. ix., p. 148.).--If A. refers to Forby's _Vocabulary of
East Anglia_, he will find:

    "SIZZLE, _v._ To dry and shrivel up with hissing, by the action of fire
    or some greasy or juicy substance."

C. R. M.

_Contributors to Knight's "Quarterly Magazine"_ (Vol. ix., p. 103.).--I can
answer one of E. H.'s inquiries. Gerard Montgomery was the assumed name of
the Rev. J. Moultrie. It was originally adopted by him in that most
brilliant of all school periodicals, _The Etonian_, and the mask was thrown
off in the list of contributors given at the end of the third volume. In
_The Etonian_ it was attached to "Godiva," the poem which attracted the
warm admiration of Gifford of the _Quarterly Review_, a man not prodigal of
praise, and the "Godiva" of Moultrie may still fearlessly unveil its charms
beside the "Godiva" of Tennyson. His longest poem in Knight's _Quarterly_
was "La Belle Tryamour," which has since been republished in a volume of
collected poems with his name to them, many of which are strikingly unlike
it in character. The gay _Etonian_ is now the vicar of Rugby; and the story
of his experiences has been told by himself with a singular charm in his
"Dream of a Life."

Strange it is that the contributions of Macaulay to Knight's _Quarterly
Magazine_ should not, ere now, have been reprinted. Some few of them have
been so, and are become familiar as household words on both sides of the
Atlantic. The others are as obscure as if still in manuscript. What does
the public at large know of the "Fragments of a Roman Tale," or the "Scenes
from Athenian Revels;" in which the future historian tried his powers as a
romancer and a dramatist--in the one case bringing before us Cæsar and
Catiline, in the other Alcibiades and his comrades. There are essays too by
Macaulay in Knight's _Quarterly Magazine_ of a lighter character than those
in the _Edinburgh Review_, but not less brilliant than any in that splendid
series which now takes rank as one of the most valuable contributions of
the present age to the standard literature of England. It would not be one
of the least weighty arguments against the extended law of copyright, which
Macaulay succeeded in passing, that the public is now deprived of the
enjoyment of such treasures as these by the too nice fastidiousness of
their author. As on two former occasions, we suppose that they are likely
to be first collected in Boston or New York, and that London will
afterwards profit by the rebound.

M. T. W.

"_La Langue Pandras_" (Vol. ii., pp. 376. 403.).--It is merely a
conjecture, but may not the word _Pandras_ be the second person singular in
the future tense of a verb derived from the Latin _pando_, "to open?" I am
not aware of the existence of such a word as _pander_ in old French; but I
believe that it was by no means an unusual practice among the writers of
Chaucer's time to adapt Latin words to their own idiom.

HONORÉ DE MAREVILLE.

Guernsey.

_Cranmer Bibles_ (Vol. ix., p. 119.).--S. R. M. will be gratified to learn,
that the death of Mr. Lea Wilson has not, as he conjectures, led to the
dispersion of the curious collection of Cranmer Bibles, which he had been
at so much pains in forming, but to its being rendered more accessible.
They were all purchased for the British Museum.

M. T. W.

_Voisonier_ (Vol. ix., p. 224.).--A corruption of _vowsoner_, _i. e._ the
owner of the _vowson_; this last {335} word being anciently used for
_advowson_, as may by seen by the glossary to Robert of Gloucester's
_Works_.

C. H.

I submit that this word means _advowsoner_, that is, "owner of the
advowson."

Q. D.

_Word-minting_ (Vol. ix., p. 151.).--To MR. MELVILLE'S list of new words,
you may add: _talented_ (Yankee), _adumbrate_ (pedantic), _service_. The
latter word is of very late importation from the French, within three
years, as applied to the lines of steamers, or traffic of railways. It is
an age of word-minting; and bids fair to corrupt the purity of the English
language by the coinage of the slovenly writer, and adoption of foreign or
learned words which possess an actual synonym in our own tongue. MR.
MELVILLE deserves our thanks for his timely notice of such "contraband"
wares.

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

Your correspondent MR. MELVILLE will be surprised to learn that the words
_deranged_, _derangement_, now so generally used in reference to a
disordered intellect, or madness, are not to be found in any dictionary
that I have seen.

J. A. H.

_Fair Rosamond_ (Vol. ix., p. 163.).--The lines which your correspondent
C. C. inquires for are from Warner's _Albion's England_, which first
appeared in thirteen books in 1586:

 "Fair Rosamond, surprised thus ere thus she did expect,
  Fell on her humble knees, and did her fearful hands erect:
  She blushed out beauty, whilst the tears did wash her pleasing face,
  And begged pardon, meriting no less of common grace.
 'So far, forsooth, as in me lay, I did,' quoth she, 'withstand;
  But what may not so great a king by means or force command?'
 'And dar'st thou, minion,' quoth the queen, 'thus article to me?'
    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
  With that she dashed her on the lips, so dyed double red:
  Hard was the heart that gave the blow, soft were those lips that bled."

J. M. B.

_Death-warnings in ancient Families_ (Vol. ix., pp. 55. 114. 150.).--

    "As a Peaksman, and a long resident in the Isle of Man, Peveril was
    well acquainted with many a superstitious legend; and particularly with
    a belief, which attached to the powerful family of the Stanleys, for
    their peculiar demon, a Ban-shie, or female spirit, who was wont to
    shriek, 'Foreboding evil times;' and who was generally seen weeping and
    bemoaning herself before the death of any person of distinction
    belonging to the family."--_Peveril of the Peak_, vol. ii. p. 174.

J. M.

Oxford.

_Poets Laureate_ (Vol. ii., p. 20.).--Your correspondent S. H. will find
"an account of the origin, office, emoluments, and privileges of poet
laureate" in a recent work entitled _The Lives of the Poets Laureate, with
an Introductory Essay on the Title and Office_, by W. S. Austin, Jun., and
J. Ralph (Richard Bentley, 1853).

From _The Memoirs of William Wordsworth_, vol. ii. p. 403., it would appear
that there is a "very interesting literary essay on the laureates of
England by Mr. Quillinan."

In the year 1803, it would appear that Lord Hardwicke, Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland, "offered to create a laureateship in Ireland, with the same
emoluments as the English one," if Mr. Moore would accept it. (_Memoirs of
Tom Moore_, vol. i. p. 228.)

From Mr. Moore's Letter to his Mother, dated May 20, 1803, we learn that--

    "The manner in which Mr. Wickham communicated the circumstance to me
    would disgust any man with the least spirit of independence about him.
    I accordingly, yesterday, after the receipt of my father's letter,
    enclosed the ode on the birth-day, at the same time resigning the
    situation."--_Memoirs of Tom Moore_, vol. i. pp. 126--128.

LEONARD L. HARTLEY.

York.

_Brissot de Warville_ (Vol. ix., p. 209.).--Since my last communication on
the above subject, I have obtained _The Life of J. P. Brissot, &c., written
by himself_, an 8vo. volume of pp. 92, published by Debrett, London, 1794.
It is a translation, the original of which I have never seen. And if you do
not think the subject exhausted, perhaps you will spare a few lines for his
own account of his name.

    "The office of an attorney was my gymnasium; I laboured in it for the
    space of five years, as well in the country as in Paris.... To relieve
    my weariness and disgust, I applied myself to literature and to the
    sciences. The study of the languages was, above all others, my
    favourite pursuit. Chance threw in my way two Englishmen, on a visit to
    my own country: I learned their language, and this circumstance decided
    my fate. It was at the commencement of my passion for that language
    that I made the metamorphosis of a diphthong in my name, which has been
    imputed to me as so great a crime; and, since I must render an account
    of every particular point, lest even the slightest hold against me
    should be afforded to malignity, I will declare the cause of the change
    in question. Born the thirteenth child of my family, and the second of
    my brothers in it, I bore, for the purpose of being distinguished from
    them, according to the custom of Beance, the name of a village in which
    my father {336} possessed some landed property. This village was called
    Ouarville, and Ouarville became the name by which I was known in my own
    country. A fancy struck me that I would cast an English air over my
    name, and therefore I substituted, in the place of the French diphthong
    _ou_, the _w_ of the English, which has the same sound. Since this
    nominal alteration, having put it as a signature to my published works
    and to different deeds, I judged it right to preserve it. If this be a
    crime, I participate in the guilt of the French _literati_, who, in the
    sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, made no scruple whatsoever of
    _grecising_ or (if we may use the expressions) _latinising_ their
    appellations. _Arouet_, to escape from a reproachful pun upon his name,
    changed it into that of _Voltaire_. The _Anglomania_ (if such it may be
    called) has occasioned me to alter mine; not, as it has been pretended,
    to draw in dupes, or to avoid passing for the son of my father, since I
    have perpetually borne, signed, and printed the name of my father after
    that second name which was given to me according to the custom of my
    country."

There are many other interesting particulars, but the above is all that
bears upon his adoption of the name Warville, and will, perhaps, be
considered pretty conclusive.

N. J. A.

"_Branks_," (Vol. ix., p. 149.).--In Wodrow's _Biographical Collections_,
vol. ii. p. 72., under the date June 15, 1596, will be found the following:

    "The Session (of Glasgow) appoint jorgs and _branks_ to be made for
    punishing flyters."

I cannot at this moment refer particularly, but I know that the word is to
be found in Burns' _Poems_ in the sense of a rustic bit or bridle. The term
is still in use in the west of Scotland; and country horses, within the
memory of many, were tormented with the clumsy contrivance across their
noses. With all its clumsiness it was very powerful, as it pressed on the
nostrils of the animal: its action was somewhat like that of a pair of
scissors.

L. N. R.

_Theobald le Botiller._ (Vol. viii., p. 367.).--If MR. DEVEREUX refers to
Lynch on _Feudal Dignities_, p. 81., he will find that Theobald le
Botiller, called the second hereditary Butler of Ireland, was of age in
1220, and died, not in 1230, but in 1248; that he married Roesia de Verdon;
that his eldest son and heir was Theobald, third Butler (grandfather of
Edmund, sixth Butler, who was created Earl of Carrick), and that by the
same marriage he was also the ancestor of the Verdons of England and of
Ireland. Now, in Lodge's _Peerage_ by Archdall, 1789, vol. iv. p. 5., it is
said that the wife of Theobald, second Butler, was Joane, eldest sister and
co-heir of John de Marisco, a great baron in Ireland; and thirdly, Sir
Bernard Burke, in his _Extinct Peerage_, makes his wife to be Maud, sister
of Thomas à Becket. Which of these three accounts am I to believe?

Y. S. M.

_Lord Harington (not Harrington)_ (Vol. viii., p. 366.).--In Collins'
_Peerage_, by Sir Egerton Brydges, ed. 1812, I find that Hugh Courtenay,
second Earl of Devon, born in 1303, had a daughter Catherine who married
first, Lord Harington, and secondly, Sir Thomas Engain. This evidently must
have been John, second Lord Harington, who died in 1363, and not William,
fifth lord, as given in Burke: the fifth lord was not born till after 1384,
and died in 1457.

Y. S. M.

_Amontillado_ (Vol. ix., p. 222.).--This wine was first imported into
England about the year 1811, and the supply was so small, that the entire
quantity was only sufficient for the table of three consumers, who speedily
became attached to it, and thenceforward drank no other sherry. One of
these was His Royal Highness the late Duke of Kent; and another, an old
friend of one who now ventures from a distant recollection to give an
account of its origin.

The winegrowers at Xeres de la Frontera had been obliged, in consequence of
the increasing demand for sherry, to extend their vineyards up the sides of
the mountains, beyond the natural soil of the sherry grape. The produce
thus obtained was mixed with the fruit of the more genial soil below, and a
very good sherry for common use was the result.

When the French devastated the neighbourhood of Xeres in 1809, they
destroyed many of the vineyards, and for a time put the winegrowers to
great shifts. One house in particular was obliged to have recourse chiefly
to the mountain grape for the support of its trade, and for the first time
manufactured it without admixture into wine. Very few butts of this produce
would stand, and by far the greater portion was treated with brandy to make
it saleable.

The small quantity that resisted the acetous fermentation, turned out to be
very different in flavour to the ordinary sherry wine, and it was sent over
to this country under the name of Amontillado sherry, from the circumstance
of the grape having been grown on the mountains.

The genuine wine is very delicate, with a peculiar flavour, slightly
aromatic rather than nutty; and answers admirably to the improved taste of
the present age.

PATONCE.

"_Mairdil_" (Vol. ix., p. 233.).--I have heard the word "maddle" often used
in the West Riding of Yorkshire, in exactly the same sense as the word
_mairdil_, as mentioned by MR. STEPHENS. And in this part the work-people
would use the word "muddle" in a similar sense.

J. L. SISSON.

_Separation of the Sexes in Church_ (Vol. ii., p. 94.).--In many churches
in Lower Brittany I observed that the women occupied the nave exclusively,
the men placing themselves in the aisles. {337} I speak, of course, of
Roman Catholic churches; but I believe that in the Protestant congregations
in France, the rule of the separation of the sexes has always been
observed.

In the island of Guernsey it has been usual, although the custom is now
beginning to be broken through, for the men to communicate before the
women. As the Presbyterian discipline was introduced into that island from
France and Geneva, and prevailed there from the time of the Reformation
until the Restoration of Charles II., it is probable that this usage is a
remnant of the rule by which the sexes were separated during divine
service.

EDGAR MACCULLOCH.

Guernsey.

_Costume of the Clergy not Enarean_ (Vol. ix., p.101.).--A. C. M. has no
other authority for calling the cassock and girdle of the clergy
"effeminate," or "a relique of the ancient priestly predilection for female
attire," than the contrast to the close-fitting skin-tight fashion adopted
by modern European tailors; the same might be said of any flowing kind of
robe, such as the Eastern costume, or that of the English judges, which as
nearly approaches to the cassock and cincture as possible. In a late number
of the _Illustrated London News_ will be found drawings from the new
statues of the kings of England lately erected in the new Houses of
Parliament: of, I think, twelve there represented, eight have a
"petticoat-like cassock," or frock, and of course for convenience a girdle.

Can any of your correspondents inform us when the cassock was introduced as
an ecclesiastical dress, whether it was then worn by persons of other
vocations, and what was the ecclesiastical costume (if any) which it
superseded?

H. P.

_Inedited Letter of Lord Nelson_ (Vol. ix., p. 241.).--On behalf of the
precious pages of "N. & Q.," I beg leave to protest against printing as
_inedited_ what a very slight degree of research would have found to have
been long since published. The letter in question will be found in Clarke
and McArthur's _Life of Nelson_, vol. ii. p. 431., and in Nicolas's _Nelson
Despatches_, vol. vii. p. 75.

I am induced to notice this especially, in the hope that MR. JACOB, who
promises us future communications of the same class, may previously satisfy
himself that they are _inedited_.

C.

_Views in London by Canaletto_ (Vol. ix., p. 106.).--In reply to the
inquiry of your correspondent GONDOLA, with respect to views of London
painted by Canaletto, whose announcement of them he quotes, I beg to inform
him that I have in my collection one of these views, "The Thames from the
Temple Gardens," in which it is curious to trace, in Thames wherries, grave
Templars, and London atmosphere, the hand that was usually employed on
gondolas, maskers, and Italian skies. I believe that others of his London
views are in the collections of the Dukes of Northumberland and Buccleuch.

EDMUND PHIPPS.

Park Lane.

_Richard Geering_ (Vol. viii., p. 504.).--I thank JULIA R. BOCKETT for her
Reply, and if H. C. C. will send me a copy of the Geering pedigree and
arms, I shall feel much obliged, and should I succeed in discovering any
particulars of _Richard's_ ancestry, I shall willingly communicate the
result to him. I have already sent you my name and address, but not for
publication; and I added a stamped envelope, in case any person wished to
communicate directly with me. I can have no objection to your giving my
address privately to any one, but being "unknown to fame," I prefer
retaining in your pages the _incognito_ I have assumed. I quite agree with
the remarks of H. B. C. and MR. KING, Vol. viii., pp. 112. 182.

Y. S. M.

_Grafts and the Parent Tree_ (Vol. vii., pp. 365. 436. 486. 536.).--I was
equally surprised with H. C. K. at the dictum of MR. INGLEBY, that "grafts
after some fifteen years wear themselves out," but the ground for such a
belief is fairly suggested by J. G. (p. 536.), otherwise I am afraid the
almost universal experience of orchardists would contradict MR. INGLEBY'S
theory. The "Ross Nonpareil," a well-known and valuable fruit, was, like
the Ribston Pippin, singular to say, raised from Normandy seed. The fact
has been often told to me by a gentleman who died several years since, at a
very advanced age, in the town of New Ross, co. Wexford. He perfectly
remembered the original tree standing in the garden attached to the endowed
school in that town, where it had been originally planted by Sir John
Ivory, the son or grandson of a Cromwellian settler, who raised it from
seed, at the commencement of the eighteenth century; and who left his own
dwelling-house in New Ross to be a school, and endowed it out of his
estates. The tree has long since decayed, but its innumerable _grafted_
successors are in the most flourishing condition. The flavour of this apple
lies chiefly in its rind.

Y. S. M.

_Golden Tooth_ (Vol. viii., p. 382.).--I recollect very well, when a boy,
trying to keep my tongue out of the cavity from whence a tooth had been
extracted, in the hope of acquiring the golden tooth promised to me by my
old nurse, and after several attempts having succeeded in refraining for
four-and-twenty hours (the period required to elapse), and no gold tooth
appearing, I well remember my disgust and disappointment. This {338} folk
lore (query _lure_) was, and I believe still is, in full force in the south
of Ireland, and probably elsewhere.

Y. S. M.

_Cambridge Mathematical Questions_ (Vol. ix., p. 35.).--These are so far
put forth "by authority" as the publication in the Cambridge _Calendar_,
and the two local newspapers goes; a collection of the Senate House Papers
for "Honours" from 1838 to 1849, has also been published, arranged
according to subjects, by Rev. A. H. Frost, M.A., of St. John's College.

P. J. F. GANTILLON.

_Lichfield Bower or Wappenschau_ (Vol. ix., p. 242.).--In answer to MR.
LAMONT'S question, I have to inform him that in this city a similar
_wappenschau_, or exhibition of arms, has been annually maintained, with a
short intermission, from time immemorial. The Court of Array held on Whit
Monday was anciently commenced, according to Pitt, by the high constables
of this city, attended by ten men with firelocks, and adorned with ribbons,
preceded by eight morris-dancers, and a clown fantastically dressed,
escorting the sheriff, town clerk, and bailiffs from the Guildhall to the
Bower at Greenhill, temporarily erected for their reception, where the
names of all the householders and others of the twenty-one wards of the
city were called to do suit and service to "the court of review of men and
arms." The dozener, or petty constable of each ward, was summoned to
attend, who with a flag joined the procession through his ward, when a
volley was fired over every house in it, and the procession was regaled by
the inhabitants with refreshments. Those inhabitants who, on such summons,
proceeded to the Bower, were regaled with a cold collation. Those who did
not attend (for the names of each ward were called over) were fined one
penny each. The twenty-one wards require a long day for this purpose, and
it is concluded by a procession to the market-place, where the town clerk
informs them that the firm allegiance of their ancestors had obtained
grants to their city of valuable charters and immunities, and advises them
to continue in the same course. The dozeners then deposit their flags under
the belfry in the adjacent church of St. Mary's. This ceremony still
continues, with the exception of the armed men and the firing.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

_Anecdote of George IV._ (Vol. ix., p. 244.).--In the letter supposed to be
written by the late Prince of Wales when a child, I observe these words:
"which have stolen from the old woman (the queen)." I think it more
probable that the writer refers to Mrs. Schwellenberg, an old German lady,
who came over with the late queen as a confidential domestic, and who would
have such articles under her keeping. (See _Diary of Madame D'Arblay_.) The
transaction is a notable instance of the prince's forethought and
liberality at an early age.

W. H.

_Pedigree to the Time of Alfred_ (Vol. viii., p. 586.; Vol. ix.,
p. 283.).--I beg to inform your correspondent S. D. that she will find a
very interesting notice of the Wapshot family in _Chertsey and its
Neighbourhood_, by Mrs. S. C. Hall, 1853.

GEO. BISH WEBB.

_Tortoiseshell Tom-cat_ (Vol. v., p. 465.; Vol. vii., p. 271.).--I have
certainly heard of tortoiseshell tom-cats; but never having seen one, I
cannot affirm that any such exist. The fact of their rarity is undoubted;
but I should like to be informed by W. R., or any other person who has paid
particular attention to the natural history of this useful and much
calumniated domestic animal, whether yellow female cats are not quite as
uncommon as tortoiseshell males?

HONORÉ DE MAREVILLE.

Guernsey.

       *       *       *       *       *


Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

The new edition of Mr. Smee's valuable little work on _The Eye in Health
and Disease_, is one to which we desire to direct the attention of all our
readers, for the subject is one of great importance, and more especially to
reading men. Mr. Smee has obviously devoted great attention to the various
derangements to which this hardly-worked yet beautifully-delicate organ is
liable; and his remarks cannot fail to prove of great service to those who
require the assistance either of the oculist or the optician. To our
photographic readers, the present reprint will be of especial interest for
the very able paper "_On the Stereoscope and Binocular Perspective_," which
is appended to it.

_The Homeric Design of the Shield of Achilles_, by William Watkiss Lloyd. A
dissertation on a subject immortalised by the poetry of Homer and the
sculpture of Flaxman, which will well repay our classical readers for the
time spent in its perusal.

_Architectural Botany, setting forth the Geometrical Distribution of
Foliage, Flowers, Fruit_, &c.--a separately published extract from Mr.
W. P. Griffith's _Ancient Gothic Churches_--is a farther endeavour on the
part of the author to direct attention to the laws by which vegetable
productions were created and imitated by the early architects, and thereby
to contribute to securing greater beauty and precision on the part of their
successors to the decoration of churches.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--_Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, with Notes
by Milman and Guizot, edited by_ Dr. William Smith. The second volume of
this handsome edition, forming part of Murray's _British Classics_, extends
from the reign of Claudius to Julian's victories in Gaul.--_The Archæologia
Cambrensis, New {339} Series, No. XVII._, has, in addition to an excellent
article by Mr. Hartshorne on Conway Castle, a number of other papers on
subjects connected with the Principality.--_Lives of the Queens of
England_, by Agnes Strickland, Vol. IV., is entirely dedicated to Glorious
Queen Bess, of whom we think far more highly than her
biographer.--_Poetical Works of William Cowper_, edited by Robert Bell,
Vol. I. Cowper is so great and deserved a favourite, that his works will
probably be among the most popular portion of Parker's _Annotated Edition
of the English Poets_.--_The Journal of Sacred Literature_, New Series, No.
XI., April 1854, contains thirteen various articles illustrative of the
Sacred Writings, besides its valuable miscellaneous correspondence and
intelligence.--_Macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays._ Part II. of the
People's Edition contains for one shilling some six or seven of these
brilliant essays, including those on Moore's Byron, Boswell's Johnson,
Nugent's Hampden, and Burleigh.--The _Cyclopædia Bibliographica_, Part XIX.
The first portion of this valuable work must be drawing rapidly to a close,
as this nineteenth part extends to Rev. R. Valpy.

       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

THE WORKS OF DR. JONATHAN SWIFT. London, printed for C. Bathurst, in Fleet
Street, 1768. Vol VII. (Vol. VI. ending with "Verses on the Death of Dr.
Swift," written in Nov. 1731.)

BYRON'S WORKS. Vol. VI. of Murray's Edition. 1829.

The Volume of the LONDON POLYGLOTT which contains the Prophets.
Imperfection in other parts of no consequence.

CARLISLE ON GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.

THE CIRCLE OF THE SEASONS. London, 1828. 12mo. Two copies.

*** Letters, stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_, to be
sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES." 186. Fleet Street.

Particulars of Price, &c. of the following Books to be sent direct to the
gentlemen by whom they are required, and whose names and addresses are
given for that purpose:

PENNY CYCLOPÆDIA. Part 92. (For September, 1840.)

  Wanted by _A. Baden, Jun._, 1. Old Broad Street.

ALLISTER'S PARADIGMA CHESS OPENINGS.

NATT'S SERMONS PREACHED AT ST. SEPULCHRE.

ARMYTAGE'S (Rev. J., of Tidenham) SERMONS.

MAYHEW'S LONDON LIFE AND LABOUR. Complete.

NICHOLSON'S LECTURES ON HEZEKIAH.

WALTON AND COTTON'S ANGLER. Edited by Sir H. Nicolas.

  Wanted by _Mr. Hayward_, Bookseller, Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAMILY INSTRUCTOR, by De Foe. 2 Vols. 1841. Oxford, Talboys.

ALLAN RAMSAY'S TEA-TABLE MISCELLANY. 1724.

THE LADY'S POETICAL MAGAZINE, or Beauties of British Poets. 4 Vols. London,
1781.

THE HIVE, 3 Vols., containing _First_ Edition of Vol. I.

THE HIVE. Vol. III. 4th Edition. (Edition in 4 Vols.)

LONDON MAGAZINE. Vols. after the year 1763.

  Wanted by _Fred. Dinsdale_, Esq., Leamington.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notices to Correspondents.

L. M. T. (Bath) _is thanked; but _original poetry_ does not fall within the
objects of_ "N. & Q."

DIXON OF BEESTON.--_Our Chester Correspondent on this subject is thanked
for his information. He no doubt will agree with us that it is not
desirable to publish it, as it relates in some degree to one who need not
be brought before the public._

ANNIE (Brixton) _will see in our_ First Volume _a tolerably full history of
what Sterne has made world-renowned_--"God tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb."

ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.--C. W. F. _is thanked, and referred to our_ Sixth
Volume, p 93., _where he will see Addison's notice of the Electric
Telegraph; and to_ p. 204. _of the same volume for a valuable communication
from_ MR. SINGER _on Strada's_ Sympathetic Magnetic _telegraph_.

ONE WHO HAS WHISTLED AT THE PLOUGH.--_The three grains of pyrogallic acid
to one drachm of acetic and one ounce of water. For the development of
negatives, this may with benefit be diluted by using one third of this
solution, two thirds of water._

_Answers to many other Correspondents (including Photographic) are
unavoidably deferred until next week._

OUR EIGHTH VOLUME _is now bound and ready for delivery, price_ 10s. 6d.,
_cloth, boards. A few sets of the whole Eight Volumes are being made up,
price_ 4l. 4s.--_For these early application is desirable._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels, and deliver them to
their Subscribers on the Saturday_.

       *       *       *       *       *


PIANOFORTES, 25 Guineas each.--D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square
(established A.D. 1785), sole manufacturers of the ROYAL PIANOFORTES, at 25
Guineas each. Every instrument warranted. The peculiar advantages of these
pianofortes are best described in the following professional testimonial,
signed by the majority of the leading musicians of the age:--"We, the
undersigned members of the musical profession, having carefully examined
the Royal Pianofortes manufactured by MESSRS. D'ALMAINE & CO., have great
pleasure in bearing testimony to their merits and capabilities. It appears
to us impossible to produce instruments of the same size possessing a
richer and finer tone, more elastic touch, or more equal temperament, while
the elegance of their construction renders them a handsome ornament for the
library, boudoir, or drawing-room. (Signed) J. L. Abel, F. Benedict, H. R.
Bishop, J. Blewett, J. Brizzi, T. P. Chipp, P. Delavanti, C. H. Dolby,
E. F. Fitzwilliam, W. Forde, Stephen Glover, Henri Herz, E. Harrison, H. F.
Hassé, J. L. Hatton, Catherine Hayes, W. H. Holmes, W. Kuhe, G. F.
Kiallmark, E. Land, G. Lanza, Alexander Lee, A. Leffler, E. J. Loder, W. H.
Montgomery, S. Nelson, G. A. Osborne, John Parry, H. Panofka, Henry
Phillips, F. Praegar, E. F. Rimbault, Frank Romer, G. H. Rodwell, E.
Rockel, Sims Reeves, J. Templeton, F. Weber, H. Westrop, T. H. Wright," &c.

D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square, Lists and Designs Gratis.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALLSOPP'S PALE or BITTER ALE. MESSRS. S. ALLSOPP & SONS beg to inform the
TRADE that they are now registering Orders for the March Brewings of their
PALE ALE in Casks of 18 Gallons and upwards, at the BREWERY,
Burton-on-Trent; and at the under-mentioned Branch Establishments:

  LONDON, at 61. King William Street, City.
  LIVERPOOL, at Cook Street.
  MANCHESTER, at Ducie Place.
  DUDLEY, at the Burnt Tree.
  GLASGOW, at 115. St. Vincent Street.
  DUBLIN, at 1. Crampton Quay.
  BIRMINGHAM, at Market Hall.
  SOUTH WALES, at 13. King Street, Bristol.

MESSRS. ALLSOPP & SONS take the opportunity of announcing to PRIVATE
FAMILIES that their ALES, so strongly recommended by the Medical
Profession, may be procured in DRAUGHT and BOTTLES GENUINE from all the
most RESPECTABLE LICENSED VICTUALLERS, on "ALLSOPP'S PALE ALE" being
specially asked for.

When in bottle, the genuineness of the label can be ascertained by its
having "ALLSOPP & SONS," written across it.

       *       *       *       *       *


W. H. HART, RECORD AGENT and LEGAL ANTIQUARIAN (who is in the possession of
Indices to many of the early Public Records whereby his Inquiries are
greatly facilitated) begs to Inform Authors and Gentlemen engaged in
Antiquarian or Literary Pursuits, that he is prepared to undertake searches
among the Public Records, MSS. in the British Museum, Ancient Wills, or
other Depositories of a similar Nature, in any Branch of Literature,
History, Topography, Genealogy, or the like, and in which he has had
considerable experience.

1. ALBERT TERRACE, NEW CROSS, HATCHAM, SURREY.

       *       *       *       *       *


HEAL & SON'S SPRING MATTRESSES.--The most durable Bedding is a well-made
SPRING MATTRESS: it retains its elasticity, and will wear longer without
repair than any other mattress, and with _one_ French Wool and Hair
Mattress on it is a most luxurious Bed. HEAL & SON make them in three
varieties. For prices of the different sizes and qualities, apply for HEAL
& SON'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF BEDSTEADS, and priced LIST OF BEDDING. It
contains designs and prices of upwards of 100 Bedsteads, and prices of
every description of Bedding, and is sent free by Post.

HEAL & SON, 196. Tottenham Court Road.

       *       *       *       *       *


{340}

ARUNDEL SOCIETY.--The Publication of the Fourth Year (1852-3), consisting
of Eight Wood Engravings by MESSRS. DALZIEL, from Mr. W. Oliver Williams'
Drawings after GIOTTO'S Frescos at PADUA, is now ready: and Members who
have not paid their Subscriptions are requested to forward them to the
Treasurer by Post-Office Order, payable at the Charing Cross Office.

          JOHN J. ROGERS,
              Treasurer and Hon. Sec.
  13. & 14.  Pall Mall East.
      March, 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION.

THE EXHIBITION OF PHOTOGRAPHS, by the most eminent English and Continental
Artists, is OPEN DAILY from Ten till Five. Free Admission.

                                            £  s. d.
  A Portrait by Mr. Talbot's Patent
    Process                                 1  1  0
  Additional Copies (each)                  0  5  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (small size)                            3  3  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (larger size)                           5  5  0

Miniatures, Oil Paintings, Water-Colour, and Chalk Drawings, Photographed
and Coloured in imitation of the Originals. Views of Country Mansions,
Churches, &c., taken at a short notice.

Cameras, Lenses, and all the necessary Photographic Apparatus and
Chemicals, are supplied, tested, and guaranteed.

Gratuitous Instruction is given to Purchasers of Sets of Apparatus.

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION,
168. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


IMPROVEMENT IN COLLODION.--J. B. HOCKIN & CO., Chemists, 289. Strand, have,
by an improved mode of Iodizing, succeeded in producing a Collodion equal,
they may say superior, in sensitiveness and density of Negative, to any
other hitherto published; without diminishing the keeping properties and
appreciation of half-tint for which their manufacture has been esteemed.

Apparatus, pure Chemicals, and all the requirements for the practice of
Photography. Instruction in the Art.

THE COLLODION AND POSITIVE PAPER PROCESS. By J. B. HOCKIN. Price 1s., per
Post. 1s. 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *


Collodion portraits and views obtained with the greatest ease and certainty
by using BLAND & LONG'S preparation of Soluble Cotton; certainty and
uniformity of action over a lengthened period, combined with the most
faithful rendering of the half-tones, constitute this a most valuable agent
in the hands of the photographer.

Albumenized paper, for printing from glass or paper negatives, giving a
minuteness of detail unattained by any other method, 5_s_. per Quire.

Waxed and Iodized Papers of tried quality. Instruction in the Processes.

BLAND & LONG, Opticians and Photographical Instrument Makers, and Operative
Chemists, 153. Fleet Street, London.

*** Catalogues sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *


The sight preserved by the Use of SPECTACLES adapted to suit every variety
of Vision by means of SMEE'S OPTOMETER, which effectually prevents Injury
to the Eyes from the Selection of Improper Glasses, and is extensively
employed by

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, 153. Fleet Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY.

3. PARLIAMENT STREET, LONDON.

Founded A.D. 1842.

  _Directors._

  H. E. Bicknell, Esq.          | T. Grissell, Esq.
  T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M.P.  | J. Hunt, Esq.
  G. H. Drew, Esq.              | J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
  W. Evans, Esq.                | E. Lucas, Esq.
  W. Freeman, Esq.              | J. Lys Seager, Esq.
  F. Fuller, Esq.               | J. B. White, Esq.
  J. H. Goodhart, Esq.          | J. Carter Wood, Esq.

  _Trustees._--W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.; George Drew, Esq., T. Grissell,
      Esq.
  _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.
  _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through temporary
difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given upon application to
suspend the payment at interest, according to the conditions detailed in
the Prospectus.

Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100l., with a Share in
three-fourths of the Profits:--

  Age       £   s.  d. | Age       £   s.  d.
   17       1  14   4  |  32       2  10   8
   22       1  18   8  |  37       2  18   6
   27       2   4   5  |  42       3   8   2

ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

Now ready, price 10s. 6d., Second Edition, with material additions,
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION: being a TREATISE ON BENEFIT BUILDING
SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of Land Investment, exemplified in
the Cases of Freehold Land Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a
Mathematical Appendix on Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR
SCRATCHLEY, M.A., Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3.
Parliament Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHUBB'S FIRE-PROOF SAFES AND LOCKS.--These safes are the most secure from
force, fraud, and fire. Chubb's locks, with all the recent improvements,
cash and deed boxes of all sizes. Complete lists, with prices, will be sent
on application.

CHUBB & SON, 57. St. Paul's Churchyard, London; 28. Lord Street, Liverpool;
16. Market Street, Manchester; and Horseley Fields, Wolverhampton.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.--HORNE & CO.'S Iodized Collodion, for obtaining Instantaneous
Views, and Portraits in from three to thirty seconds, according to light.

Portraits obtained by the above, for delicacy of detail rival the choicest
Daguerreotypes, specimens of which may be seen at their Establishment.

Also every description of Apparatus, Chemicals, &c. &c. used in this
beautiful Art.--123. and 121. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Photography.--Messrs. A. MARION & CO. beg to inform the Artists and
Amateurs that they are now ready to supply them with papers manufactured
expressly for Photographic purposes: since it has been tried it has
received the unanimous good opinion of the most successful operators.

Positive and Negative (not prepared), Simple Salted, and Salted Albumenized
Positive, Simple Waxed, and Waxed Iodized Negative, Gummed Paper, and Cards
for Mounting Proofs.

PAPETERIE MARION, 152. Regent Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Patronised by the Royal Family.

Two thousand pounds for any person producing Articles superior to the
following:

THE HAIR RESTORED AND GREYNESS PREVENTED.

BEETHAM'S CAPILLARY FLUID is acknowledged to be the most effectual article
for Restoring the Hair in Baldness, strengthening when weak and fine,
effectually preventing falling out or turning grey, and for restoring its
natural colour without the use of dye. The rich glossy appearance it
imparts is the admiration of every person. Thousands have experienced its
astonishing efficacy. Bottles, 2s. 6d.; double size, 4s. 6d.; 7s. 6d. equal
to 4 small: 11s. to 6 small: 21s. to 13 small. The most perfect beautifier
ever invented.

SUPERFLUOUS HAIR REMOVED.

BEETHAM'S VEGETABLE EXTRACT does not cause pain or injury to the skin. Its
effect is unerring, and it is now patronised by royalty and hundreds of the
first families. Bottles, 5s.

BEETHAM'S PLASTER is the only effectual remover of Corns and Bunions. It
also reduces enlarged Great Toe Joints in an astonishing manner. If space
allowed, the testimony of upwards of twelve thousand individuals, during
the last five years, might be inserted. Packets, 1s.; boxes, 2s. 6d. Sent
Free by BEETHAM, Chemist, Cheltenham, for 14 or 36 Post Stamps.

Sold by PRING, 30. Westmorland Street; JACKSON, 9. Westland Row; BEWLEY &
EVANS, Dublin; GOULDING, 108. Patrick Street, Cork; BARRY, 9. Main Street,
Kinsale; GRATTAN, Belfast; MURDOCK, BROTHERS, Glasgow; DUNCAN & FLOCKHART,
Edinburgh. SANGER, 150. Oxford Street; PROUT, 229. Strand; KEATING, St.
Paul's Churchyard; SAVORY & MOORE, Bond Street; HANNAY, 63. Oxford Street;
London. All Chemists and Perfumers will procure them.

       *       *       *       *       *


GROSJEAN'S CELEBRATED TROWSERS,

16s. per Pair.

109. REGENT STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *


SURPLICES.

GILBERT J. FRENCH, Bolton, Lancashire, has prepared his usual large Supply
of SURPLICES, in Anticipation of EASTER.

PARCELS delivered FREE at Railway Stations.

       *       *       *       *       *


Bennett's model watch, as shown at the GREAT EXHIBITION, No. 1. Class X.,
in Gold and Silver Cases, in five qualities, and adapted to all Climates,
may now be had at the MANUFACTORY, 65. CHEAPSIDE. Superior Gold London-made
Patent Levers, 17, 15, and 12 guineas. Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 4
guineas. First-rate Geneva Levers, in Gold Cases, 12, 10, and 8 guineas.
Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 5 guineas. Superior Lever, with
Chronometer Balance, Gold, 27, 23, and 19 guineas. Bennett's Pocket
Chronometer, Gold, 50 guineas; Silver, 40 guineas. Every Watch skilfully
examined, timed, and its performance guaranteed. Barometers, 2l., 3l., and
4l. Thermometers from 1s. each.

BENNETT, Watch, Clock, and Instrument Maker to the Royal Observatory, the
Board of Ordnance, the Admiralty, and the Queen,

65. CHEAPSIDE.

       *       *       *       *       *


Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 10. Stonefield Street, in the Parish
of St. Mary, Islington, at No. 5. New Street Square, in the Parish of St.
Bride, in the City of London; and published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186.
Fleet Street, in the Parish of St. Dunstan in the West, in the City of
London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet Street aforesaid.--Saturday, April 8,
1854.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Number 232, April
8, 1854, by Various

